

===== PDF PAGE 1 =====

∗
High Wage Workers Work for High Wage Firms
Katar´ına Boroviˇckov´a Robert Shimer
New York University University of Chicago
February 13, 2020
Abstract
We propose a new measure of the correlation between the types of matched workers
and firms and show that this captures sorting in a variety of structural models. We
also propose an estimator of the correlation and prove that the estimator is consistent
when the number of workers and firms grows to infinity even if each worker only
has a small number of jobs and each firm only employs a small number of workers.
Model simulations also confirm that our estimator is accurate in small data sets. Using
administrativedatafromAustria, wefindthatthecorrelationbetweenworkerandfirm
types lies between 0.4 and 0.6. In contrast, the Abowd, Kramarz, and Margolis (1999)
fixed effects estimator suggests a near-zero correlation in our data set. This reflects a
combination of biases in the AKM correlation estimator and limitations of the AKM
correlation as a measure of sorting.
∗We are grateful for comments from John Abowd, Fernando Alvarez, St´ephane Bonhomme, Jaroslav
Boroviˇcka,ThibautLamadon,RasmusLentz,IlseLindenlaub,ElenaManresa,MagneMogstad,DerekNeal,
MartinRotemberg,andChristopherTaber,aswellasparticipantsinvariousseminars. Anyremainingerrors
are our own. This material is based in part on work supported by the National Science Foundation under
grant numbers SES-1559225 and SES-1559459.

===== PDF PAGE 2 =====

1 Introduction
There is sorting everywhere in the economy. Wealthier, more educated, more attractive
men on average marry wealthier, more educated, more attractive women (Becker, 1973).
Higherincomehouseholdsresideindistinctneighborhoodsandsendtheirchildrentodifferent
schools than low income households (Tiebout, 1956). Elite universities enroll the most
qualified undergraduates (Solomon, 1975). The one place where it has been hard to find
evidenceofsortingisinthelabormarket. Afairsummaryofanextensiveliteraturefollowing
Abowd, Kramarz, and Margolis (1999) (hereafter AKM) is that the correlation between the
fixed characteristics of workers and their employers is close to zero and possibly negative.1
This is often interpreted as saying that there is no evidence that high wage workers work
for high wage firms and is used to justify theoretical models in which there is no sorting
between workers and firms (Postel-Vinay and Robin, 2002; Christensen, Lentz, Mortensen,
Neumann, and Werwatz, 2005).
This paper proposes a new measure of sorting and revisits this conclusion through the
lens of that measure. Our measure of sorting is the correlation between a worker’s type and
her employer’s type. We define a worker’s type to be the expected log wage she receives in
an employment relationship conditional on taking the job. That is, if we could observe a
worker for a long time, her type would be the average log wage she receives. Similarly, we
define a firm’s type to be the expected log wage that it pays to an employee conditional on
hiring the worker, or equivalently the average log wage paid in a long time series.2
Beyond proposing this measure of sorting, our paper makes three main contributions.
First, we develop simple structural models to use as laboratories for measuring sorting. In
particular, we ask whether our measure of the correlation between types captures an empir-
ically infeasible but intuitive notion of sorting in those models. We show that in a particular
statisticalmodel, ourmeasureofthecorrelationbetweentypesisidenticaltoAKM’smeasure
of correlation. We then develop a search model with both ex ante heterogeneity and idiosyn-
cratic productivity shocks. We show that the two measures of correlation are quantitatively
similar, although there are limited situations where one performs better than the other. Fi-
1In addition to the original study on French data by AKM, see Abowd, Creecy, and Kramarz (2002) for
Washington State, Iranzo, Schivardi, and Tosetti (2008) for Italy, Gruetter and Lalive (2009) for Austria,
Card, Heining, and Kline (2013) for Germany, Bagger, Sørensen, and Vejlin (2013) and Bagger, Fontaine,
Postel-Vinay, and Robin (2014) for Denmark, and Lopes de Melo, 2018 for Brazil, among others. Recent
papers emphasize bias in the OLS estimates of the AKM model and find a larger correlation; see especially
Kline, Saggio, and Sølvsten (2019) and Bonhomme, Lamadon, and Manresa (2019).
2Our definition of firm type is close to Christensen, Lentz, Mortensen, Neumann, and Werwatz (2005),
who define a firm’s type to be equal to the average wage (in levels rather than logs) it pays. It is worth
noting that both AKM’s and our definition of firm type is consistent with high type firms being either high
or low productivity firms, for the reasons discussed in Eeckhout and Kircher (2011).
1

===== PDF PAGE 3 =====

nally, we develop a discrete choice model with an idiosyncratic amenity shock and find that
our measure of the correlation between types captures an intuitive notion of sorting, while
the AKM correlation delivers nonsense. We conclude that the correlation between types is a
promising reduced-form measure of sorting in a variety of standard economic environments.
Our second contribution is to develop an estimator of the correlation between types.
Intuitively, our approach is to directly estimate the variance-covariance matrix of matched
types using moment conditions that do not impose any functional form on the underlying
type distributions. Our estimator is motivated by the properties of real-world data sets that
have a large number of workers and firms but few independent observations for each worker
and firm. Our key identifying assumption is that for each worker, we have two or more
observations of the actual wage received and that these observations are independently and
identically distributed conditional on the worker’s type, and symmetrically for firms. Our
estimated correlation then pertains to the sample of workers and firms for which we have
these two observations. We prove that our estimator is consistent in the limit as the number
of workers and firms goes to infinity, even if we only observe a small number of independent
observations for each worker and firm. We also use model-generated data to evaluate the
behavior of the estimator in small data sets. We find that both the bias and variance of the
estimator are generally small even with only 2,500 workers and 500 firms.
Our third contribution is to estimate the correlation in real-world data. Our primary
data set captures the universe of private sector workers in Austria from 1986 to 2018. We
first measure the correlation between types using annual wage data and find it is about 0.67
formenand0.62forwomen. However, werecognizethatannualwageobservationsmightnot
be independent conditional on type, particularly for workers who do not switch employers.
This means these estimates may be inconsistent. To construct conditionally independent
observations, we rely on economic theory. First, we average all our wage data to the worker-
firm match level. In simple search models without on-the-job search, such as Shimer and
Smith (2000), wages in any two employment relationships are independent conditional on
the worker’s type. This suggests that we can use match-level data on all workers who have
at least two jobs and all firms that have at least two employees in our data set. Second, in
a more realistic search model with on-the-job search, such as Burdett and Mortensen (1998)
and Postel-Vinay and Robin (2002), the wages in any two jobs that are separated by an
unemployment spell are independent conditional on the worker’s type. We define the time
between registered unemployment spells as an employment spell and further trim the data
to keep only the longest job during each employment spell for each worker. Our numerical
results depend on which data set we use, and our preferred estimates use the last approach,
with one observation per employment spell per worker. Using this data set, we estimate that
2

===== PDF PAGE 4 =====

the correlation between worker and firm types is 0.47 for men and 0.43 for women.
We view these as lower bounds on the true correlation because our approach ignores the
fact that workers and firms change over time and firms are collections of heterogeneous jobs.
We illustrate this by incorporate time-varying observable characteristics for both workers
and firms. For example, we let firms have different types when matched with workers with
different education levels. This raises the estimated correlation to 0.52 for men and 0.51 for
women. We get similar results when we allow for variation in both workers’ and firms’ types
depending on whether the job is blue or white collar, and when we allow for variation in
workers’ types depending on the firm’s industry.
Our approach is also amenable to estimation using short time series. In particular, we
can estimate the correlation between worker and firm types using only a single year’s data,
which further mitigates issues of time-varying unobserved heterogeneity. Using only data on
workers who lose a job, become unemployed, and find a new job within a year, we find a
steady increase in sorting among men since 1986 but a decrease in sorting among women,
particularly during the eight years after 2001. At the end of our sample, the correlation
between men’s types and their employer’s types was 0.55, while it was only 0.38 for women.
The last section of our paper explores the difference between our results and estimates
of the AKM correlation. We verify that OLS estimates of the AKM correlation are small
in our data, 0.12 for men and 0.07 for women. There are two possible explanations for this
difference. Either our correlation is much bigger than the true AKM correlation or the true
AKMcorrelationismuchbiggerthantheOLSestimateofit. Ourstructuralmodelsestablish
the first possibility and indicate that in these cases, our correlation is preferred. On the
other hand, recent papers propose bias corrections and alternative estimators of the AKM
correlation (e.g., Andrews, Gill, Schank, and Upward, 2008; Kline, Saggio, and Sølvsten,
2019; Bonhomme, Lamadon, and Manresa, 2019).3 We obtain very different estimates of the
AKM correlation depending on which estimator we use. In some cases, the bias-corrected
AKM estimates are very similar to the OLS estimates, while in other cases they are much
closer to our correlation. In our view, this uncertainty about the true AKM correlation
further supports our measure of correlation and our estimator.
The goal of this paper is to develop and estimate a measure of sorting that is sensible in
a variety of structural models. An alternative approach would be to estimate a structural
model of sorting, as in Lise, Meghir, and Robin (2016), Hagedorn, Law, and Manovskii
(2017), Lopes de Melo (2018), or Bagger and Lentz (forthcoming). There are advantages to
3JochmansandWeidner(2019)showthatthebiasdependsontheworker-firmnetworkstructureandoffer
bounds on the bias as a function of the degree of connectivity of the network. Since Andrews, Gill, Schank,
and Upward (2008) and Kline, Saggio, and Sølvsten (2019) offer exact formulas, we use their approach to
the bias correction.
3

===== PDF PAGE 5 =====

each approach. On the one hand, the estimates in those papers impose more structure on the
data, which may drive the results. On the other hand, those papers are able to address issues
that go beyond the scope of this paper, where we focus exclusively on measuring sorting.
The remainder of the paper proceeds as follows. Section 2 defines our measure of sorting,
the correlation between worker and firm types. In Section 3, we use several models as
laboratoriestostudyhowourmeasureofsortingcomparestotheAKMmeasureofcorrelation
as well as to an intuitive measure of sorting. We propose an estimator in Section 4 and
implement it on an Austrian data set, which we describe in Section 5. Section 6 gives
our main empirical results, showing that the correlation between worker and firm types lies
between 0.4 and 0.6. Section 7 compares our results to estimates of the AKM correlation
using OLS and other approaches. Section 8 concludes.
2 Measuring Sorting in Theory
2.1 The Economy
We consider the cross-section of an economy with a fixed measure of workers employed by a
fixed measure of firms. Workers and firms are distinguished by their characteristics, x X
∈
and y Y, respectively. Let F(x) denote the distribution of workers’ characteristics. Let
∈
Φ (y) denote the distribution of the employer’s characteristics conditional on the worker’s
x
characteristics. For now, we treat F and Φ as primitives; however, we think of these distri-
x
butions as being generated by a structural dynamic model such as Burdett and Mortensen
(1998), Shimer and Smith (2000), or Postel-Vinay and Robin (2002). In such a model, dif-
ferences in Φ across x might reflect the fact that different workers find or accept different
jobs with different probabilities or that they have different patterns of job-to-job mobility.
(cid:82)
Define G(y) Φ (y)dF(x) to be the unconditional distribution of the characteristics
≡ X x
of jobs in the economy. This is distinct from the distribution of the characteristics of firms
to the extent that firms with different characteristics employ different numbers of workers.
We also define Ψ (x) to be the conditional distribution of the worker’s characteristics given
y
the firm’s characteristics. By Bayes rule, we have Φ (y)F(x) Ψ (x)G(y) for all x and y.
x y
≡
Aworkerwithcharacteristicsxmatchedtoafirmwithcharacteristicsy earnsawagethat
depends on both characteristics and on a shock. Let w(x,y,z) denote the zth quantile of the
log wage distribution in an (x,y) match.4 In competitive environments, the wage depends
only on x, but the presence of search frictions, compensating differentials, or measurement
4This is the distribution of log wages in matches that actually occur. If x and y reject some wage draws
or turnover is higher following some wage draws, that is reflected in the matching distributions Φ and Ψ,
not in the log wage distribution.
4

===== PDF PAGE 6 =====

error in x all imply that the wage may be correlated with y and other features (such as
alternative job opportunities) captured by z.
2.2 A New Measure of Sorting
We are interested in measuring the correlation between matched workers and firms in an em-
ployment relationship. To do this, we need a cardinal, unidimensional measure of workers’
and firms’ types. Workers’ and firms’ characteristics x and y may be vector-valued and in
any case do not have even an ordinal interpretation.5 We therefore propose measuring the
correlation between the expected log wage received by a worker conditional on her charac-
teristics and the expected log wage paid by her employer conditional on its characteristics.
That is, we are interested in understanding whether high wage workers typically work in
high wage firms.
For now we assume that we know the distributions F, Φ, G, and Ψ, as well as the wage
function w, and define our measure of sorting. In Section 3 we use structural models to show
that our proposed measure captures the extent of sorting in model economies. Of course, in
real world data sets we do not observe F, Φ, G, and Ψ or the wage function w, and so we
explain in Section 4 how to estimate the correlation between types using the limited data
that are available. Let
(cid:90) (cid:90) 1
λ(x) w(x,y,z)dzdΦ (y) (1)
x
≡
Y 0
(cid:90) (cid:90) 1
and µ(y) w(x,y,z)dzdΨ (x) (2)
y
≡
X 0
denote the expected log wage received by a worker with characteristics x and the expected
log wage paid by a firm with characteristics y, respectively. From now on, we identify a
worker by her expected log wage and call λ(x) her type. Symmetrically, we identify a firm
by the expected log wage it pays and call µ(y) its type.
Our object of interest is the correlation between the type of a worker and the type of her
job in the cross-section of matches at a point in time,
c
ρ , (3)
≡ σ σ
λ µ
5Lindenlaub and Postel-Vinay (2017) study a model with multidimensional characteristics and examine
theconditionsunderwhichthereispositivelyassortativematchingdimension-by-dimension. Itisimpossible
to measure this stronger notion of sorting using wage data alone.
5

===== PDF PAGE 7 =====

where
(cid:90) (cid:90) (cid:90) 1 (cid:90) (cid:90)
w¯ w(x,y,z)dzdΦ (y)dF(x) = λ(x)dF(x) = µ(y)dG(y) (4)
x
≡
X Y 0 X Y
is the mean log wage, also equal to both the mean worker type and the mean job type;
(cid:115) (cid:115)
(cid:90) (cid:90)
σ (λ(x) w¯)2dF(x) and σ (µ(y) w¯)2dG(y) (5)
λ µ
≡ − ≡ −
X Y
are the cross-sectional standard deviations of worker types and job types; and
(cid:90) (cid:90)
c (λ(x) w¯)(µ(y) w¯)dΦ (y)dF(x) (6)
x
≡ − −
X Y
is the covariance between worker and job types in an employment relationship.6 We assume
throughout that all of these first and second moments are finite.
We highlight the special case where Φ (y) = G(y) for all x and y. This means that each
x
worker is equally likely to work in every job. In this case, we can rewrite the covariance as
(cid:90) (cid:18)(cid:90) (cid:19)
c (λ(x) w¯) µ(y)dG(y) w¯ dF(x).
≡ − −
X Y
The term in the inner parenthesis is zero by the definition of w¯, hence the covariance is
zero. Since the variance of worker and firm types is still generally positive, the correlation
between types is zero. More generally, the sign of the correlation depends on whether high
wage workers are particularly likely to work at high wage firms.
2.3 The AKM Measure of Sorting
We contrast our measure of sorting with a common alternative due to Abowd, Kramarz, and
Margolis (1999) (hereafter AKM). The authors’ starting point is the assumption that the
log wage in a match between worker i with characteristics x and firm j with characteristics
i
y is linear in the worker’s and firm’s fixed effects,
j
w(x ,y ,z) = α +ψ +η (7)
i j i j
6LopesdeMelo(2018)showsthatthecorrelationbetweenaworker’swageandthewageofhercoworkers
(cid:82) (cid:82) (cid:82)
is a useful moment in estimating his structural model. The corresponding covariance is (λ(x)
Y X X −
w¯)(λ(x(cid:48)) w¯)dΨ (x(cid:48))dΨ (x)dG(y).
y y
−
6

===== PDF PAGE 8 =====

where α = α(x ) is the worker fixed effect, ψ = ψ(y ) is the firm fixed effect, and z ζ (η)
i i j j i,j
≡
is an error term where the distribution ζ has mean zero for all (i,j) pairs.7 An important
i,j
goal in that research agenda is measuring the correlation between α and ψ among matched
i j
worker-firm pairs (i,j), which we denote ρ .
AKM
If the linear wage equation (7) is correctly specified and we had infinitely much data for
each pair (x,y), we could recover α(x) and ψ(y) by integrating over the mean zero error
term. This gives us a system of linear equations,
(cid:90) 1
w(x,y,z)dz = α(x)+ψ(y),
0
which determine α and ψ up to an additive constant. If equation (7) is misspecified, this
equation cannot hold for all types. Still, we define the fixed effects as the solution to the
following moment conditions,
(cid:90) (cid:90) 1
α(x ) = (w(x ,y,z) ψ(y)) dzdΦ (y) (8)
i i
−
xi
Y 0
(cid:90) (cid:90) 1
ψ(y ) = (w(x,y ,z) α(x)) dzdΨ (x), (9)
j j
−
yj
X 0
which is equivalent to running OLS on data containing all matched pairs. As is well known,
these moment conditions uniquely define α and ψ up to an additive constant if (and only
if) there is no way to partition the workers and firms into two nonempty sets A and B such
that workers and firms in set A (B) only match with firms and workers in set A (B).
We then compute the AKM correlation in the matched pairs as
c
AKM
ρ = (10)
AKM
σ σ
α ψ
where
(cid:90) (cid:90)
¯
α¯ α(x)dF(x), ψ ψ(y)dG(y), (11)
≡ ≡
X Y
(cid:115) (cid:115)
(cid:90) (cid:90)
σ (α(x) α¯)2dF(x), σ (ψ(y) ψ ¯ )2dG(y), (12)
α ψ
≡ − ≡ −
X Y
(cid:90) (cid:90)
¯
c (α(x) α¯)(ψ(y) ψ)dΦ (y)dF(x). (13)
AKM x
≡ − −
X Y
We do not focus here on how to estimate ρ ; there are well-known statistical problem
AKM
7Abowd, Kramarz, and Margolis (1999) also allow for time-varying observable worker and firm charac-
teristics. We suppress those for expositional simplicity.
7

===== PDF PAGE 9 =====

with the fixed effects estimator, often called “limited mobility bias.” Instead, we assume
that we know the distributions F, Φ, G, and Ψ, as well as the wage function w, and are
interested in how ρ behaves in this idealized environment. To explore this, we turn next
AKM
to some structural models.
3 Models as Laboratories for Measuring Correlation
This section develops simple economic envirornments to explore how the two proposed mea-
sures of sorting, ρ and ρ , behave in structural models where we have a strong sense of
AKM
whetherthereissorting. WestartwithamodelinwhichtheAKMwageequationiscorrectly
specified. We then turn to a search model based on Shimer and Smith (2000), extended to
include match productivity shocks (Gouss´e, Jacquemet, and Robin, 2017) and finally look
at a discrete choice model, as in Card, Cardoso, Heining, and Kline (2018).
3.1 AKM is Correctly Specified
We start with an important special case in which the AKM correlation and our correlation
coincide. Assume the AKM wage equation (7) is correctly specified with α = x for all i and
i i
ψ = y for all j. Also assume that the joint density of (x,y) (and hence (α,ψ)) in matched
j j
worker-firm pairs has linear conditional expectations, that is, E (y) is linear in x and E (x)
x y
is linear in y.8 Let
(cid:32) (cid:33)
σ2 c
x AKM
c σ2
AKM y
be its variance-covariance matrix so ρ = cAKM. In this case, ρ and ρ have the same
AKM σxσy AKM
magnitude:
Proposition 1 Assume that the joint distribution of α = x and ψ = y is such that the
conditional expected values are linear, that is, E (y) is linear in x and E (x) is linear in
x y
y. Let ρ ( 1,1) denote the correlation between x and y. Then λ and µ are linear
AKM
∈ −
transformations of x and y with standard deviations σ = σ + c /σ and σ = σ +
λ x AKM x µ y
| | |
8If the joint distribution of x and y is elliptical, i.e. the associated density function ξ can be expressed as
(cid:18) (x x¯)2 2ρ (x x¯)(y y¯) (y y¯)2(cid:19)
ξ(x,y)=ξ˜ − AKM − − + − ,
σ2 − σ σ σ2
x x y y
then conditional expectations are linear. The bivariate normal and bivariate t distributions are elliptical.
8

===== PDF PAGE 10 =====

c /σ . Let ρ denote the correlation and c denote the covariance of λ and µ. Then
AKM y
|

ρ = ρ and min σ2,σ2 > c
   AKM { λ µ}
min σ2,σ2 (cid:82) c ρ is undefined
{ x y} − AKM ⇒


 ρ = ρ and min σ2,σ2 < c.
− AKM { λ µ}
The proof in Appendix A.1 shows that with linear conditional expectations, equations (1)
and (7) imply that λ(x ) is a linear transformation of x
i i
(cid:90) (cid:18) (cid:19)
c
AKM
λ(x ) = (x +y)dΦ (y) = κ + 1+ x ,
i i xi 0 σ2 i
Y x
for some constant κ . Symmetrically, equations (2) and (7) imply µ(y ) is a linear transfor-
0 j
mation of y ,
j
(cid:90) (cid:18) (cid:19)
c
AKM
µ(y ) = (x+y )dΨ (x) = θ + 1+ y ,
j j yj 0 σ2 j
X y
for some constant θ . The magnitude of the correlation coefficient between two random
0
variables is unaffected by a linear transformation, though it may change sign if one of the
transformations is decreasing, i.e. either c < σ2 or c < σ2. The proof shows that
AKM x AKM y
these conditions are equivalent to c > σ2 and c > σ2, respectively.
λ µ
Since ρ = cAKM > 1, whenever we have σ = σ , it is the case that σ2 = σ2 >
AKM σxσy − x y x y
c . Proposition 1 then implies ρ = ρ . This illustrates how to construct an economy
AKM AKM
−
where ρ takes any value in the interval ( 1,1).
−
We view this statistical model as an important benchmark case. Our approach defines
a worker’s type λ to be equal to her expected log wage and a firm’s type µ to be equal to
the expected log wage it pays. AKM define the units of types to be that which boosts the
expected log wage by a unit holding fixed the partner’s type. While these two measures are
distinct, Proposition1establishesconditionsunderthecorrelationbetweenthetwomeasures
are equal. Any structural model with an equilibrium satisfying the above properties would
feature the same magnitude of ρ and ρ .
AKM
A natural hypothesis is that by perturbing this example, either by changing the wage
function or by changing the distributional assumption on matches, it is possible to construct
examples where ρ ≷ ρ . It appears, however, that this is not the case. In the structural
AKM
models below, we always find that ρ > ρ . More interestingly, extensive numerical
AKM
simulations suggests that ρ ρ in any economy,9 although a proof of this conjecture
AKM
≥
9The simulations assume there are m types of workers, x = 1,...,m, and n types of jobs, y = 1,...,n,
and allow for an arbitrary joint distribution of matched workers and jobs, as well as an arbitrary average
9

===== PDF PAGE 11 =====

eludes us. Once we recognize that the two correlation measures are different, the interesting
question is whether either correlation captures an economically reasonable notion of sorting
in realistic environments. In an effort to answer that question, we next use a variety of
structural models as laboratories for evaluating the two measures of sorting.
3.2 Two-Sided Search Model with Match-Specific Shocks
We next examine a search model with two-sided heterogeneity (Shimer and Smith, 2000)
and match-specific heterogeneity (Gouss´e, Jacquemet, and Robin, 2017). The match-specific
productivity shocks ensure that any worker and firm have a positive probability of matching,
but different matches use a different threshold for the idiosyncratic shock. It also implies
that the wage is not pinned down by the worker and firm characteristics but depends on the
idiosyncratic shock as well.
The model is formulated in continuous time. There is measure 1 of risk-neutral workers
and measure 1 of risk-neutral firms. Everyone discounts the future at rate r. Each worker
˜
has characteristic x, distributed in the population according F(x). Similarly, each firm
has characteristic y, distributed according to G ˜ (y).10 Workers can be either unmatched or
matched to one firm; likewise, firms can be either unmatched or matched to one worker, so
a firm and a job are identical here.
Search is random and only unmatched firms and workers can search. Let u(x) be the
unemployment rate among workers with characteristic x and v(y) vacancy rate among firms
with characteristic y. A worker meets a vacancy at the rate θ and the firm characteristic
˜
is randomly drawn from the distribution G. Since there are equal measures of workers and
firms, this means that a firm meets a worker at the same rate θ and the worker characteristic
˜
is randomly drawn from the distribution F. If the worker or firm is matched, it is as if
the meeting never happened. If both are unmatched, with probability u(x)v(y), the pair
draws a match-specific productivity z 0 from a cumulative distribution ζ and then decide
≥
whether to match and produce flow zH(x,y). Match-specific productivity is independently
and identically distributed across matches and is fixed for the duration of the match. They
split the surplus according to Nash bargaining, with worker’s bargaining power γ (0,1).
∈
Assume H(x,y) is strictly positive for almost all x and y. Matches randomly end at rate δ,
leaving the worker unemployed and the job vacant.
Let U(x) and V(y) denote be the value of being an unemployed worker and a vacant firm,
wage in an (x,y) match. We then use equations (1) and (2) to construct (λ(x),µ(y)) and equations (8)
and (9) to construct (α(x),ψ(y)). We then compute ρ and ρ using equations (3) and (10) and compare
AKM
their magnitudes.
10In Section 2.1, we use F and G to denote the distribution of characteristics of employed workers and
filled jobs. We use tildes to distinguish the population distributions F˜ and G˜ from these.
10

===== PDF PAGE 12 =====

respectively. Thesurplusofamatchbetweenxandy isS(x,y,z) = zH(x,y) rU(x) rV(y).
− −
The decision to match is described by a threshold rule: a match is formed if z z¯(x,y)
≥
where z¯(x,y) is such that S(x,y,z¯(x,y)) = 0. In Appendix A.2, we develop a system of
equations that fully describes the equilibrium, while here we focus on the behavior of wages.
Nash bargaining implies that
w(x,y,z) = γ(zH(x,y) rU(x) rV(y))+rU(x),
− −
and hence the expectation of the log wage in an (x,y) match is
(cid:90)
1 (cid:0) (cid:0) (cid:1) (cid:1)
w(x,y) = log γ zH(x,y) rU(x) rV(y) +rU(x) dζ(z).
1 ζ(z¯(x,y)) − −
− z ≥ z¯(x,y)
If the distribution of match-specific productivity is exponential, we prove in Appendix A.2
that the expected log wage in a match (x,y) is monotone in H(x,y) for given x. That is, if
higher y matches are more productive, they also pay higher expected log wages conditional
on matching. We obtain a similar result numerically when the match-specific productivity
distribution is Pareto with a sufficiently high variance. In contrast, in Shimer and Smith
(2000), a given x’s wage is maximized at some value of y, typically an interior point, even if
H is strictly increasing. We find numerically that is also the case for a Pareto match-specific
productivity distribution when the variance is small.
Another difference from Shimer and Smith (2000) is that if match-specific productivity
is unbounded above, almost all matches (x,y) are created with strictly positive probability.
With enough complementarity in the production function, a worker with the lowest charac-
teristic would never match with the highest characteristic firm in Shimer and Smith (2000).
In this model, we observe such a match if the match-specific productivity is high enough.
Still, high draws are rare and therefore we observe sorting based on characteristics.
We solve the model with a discrete number of characteristics n distributed uniformly on
X = Y = 1 0.5, 2 0.5,... n 0.5 . We use the CES production function
− − −
{ n n n }
ξ−1 ξ−1 ξ
H(x,y) = (ax ξ +(1 a)y ξ )ξ−1,
−
where ξ 0 is the elasticity of substitution and a [0,1] is the worker’s share in production.
≥ ∈
We assume thatthe distributionof match productivity shocks isPareto, with some minimum
valuez andvarianceσ2.11 Ourbenchmarkusesthefollowingparametervalues: r = 1,δ = 10,
z
11We choose Pareto rather than the exponential distribution because it allows us to change the variance
of the shocks. With the exponential distribution, doubling its parameter only doubles value functions but
has no impact on the matching probabilities, unemployment rates and vacancy rates.
11

===== PDF PAGE 13 =====

θ = 104, γ = 0.5, a = 0.5, ξ = 1, σ2 = 0.1, z = 1, and n = 500.
z
With given model parameters, the model tells us exactly how often each worker matches
with each firm as well as the average log wage in those matches. We can thus compute λ(x)
and µ(y) from equations (1) and (2), as well as α(x) and ψ(y) from equations (8) and (9).
We then find ρ and ρ from equations (3) and (10). Since we know the data generating
AKM
process, we can and deliberately choose to ignore questions about estimation in this section.
We are interested in exploring how our measures of sorting change as we vary four key
model parameters: the meeting rate θ, the bargaining power γ, the variance of the match-
specific shocks σ2, and the elasticity of substitution in the production function ξ. In each
z
experiment, we compare ρ and ρ with the correlation between x and y, ρ , an intuitive
AKM x,y
measure of the extent of sorting. Note that since x and y are not observable in real-world
data, ρ is not something that is generally feasible to compute, but it is possible in the
x,y
model. Also note that the units of x and y are only defined through the assumption that
characteristics have a discrete uniform distribution. Without that, we could do a nonlinear
transformation of x and y and offset this through a change in the production function that
would leave the real structure of the economy, and hence ρ and ρ unchanged, but change
AKM
ρ . This degree of freedom implies that the correlation between x and y is instructive but
x,y
not necessarily what we should be targeting.
Figure 1 shows results from these experiments. In the top left panel, we vary the meeting
rate θ. When θ is low, it is difficult for workers to meet vacancies and thus they tend
to accept any offer that they receive, conditional on a favorable match-specific shock. As
match acceptance thresholds are low for everyone, we see little sorting. As θ , workers
→ ∞
receive offers very quickly and become selective at which offer to accept. As a result, sorting
increases. Thecorrelationρ (red)isincreasinginθ, andρ(blue)andρ (green)capture
x,y AKM
this pattern.12
In the second experiment, we change worker’s bargaining power. As γ converges to 0 or
1, workers (or firms) are paid only their outside option regardless of whom they match with,
hence sorting weakens. The correlation between x and y is hump-shaped (top right panel in
Figure 1) and again ρ and ρ properly capture this nonlinear pattern.
AKM
Inourthirdcomparativestaticexercise, wechangethevarianceofthematchproductivity
shocks. As the variance increases, match-specific productivity, rather than worker and firm
characteristics, plays a more important role and sorting becomes weaker. The bottom left
12Interestingly, the correlation does not converge to 1 as θ . This is because of the match-specific
→ ∞
productivity shocks. With minimal search frictions, the economy resembles a discrete choice model (Sec-
tion 3.3) where workers see multiple offers characterized by (y,z) and choose the one with the highest value.
Inthislimit,workersmatchwithfirmswithheterogeneouscharacteristicsandhencethecorrelationbetween
x,y is high but less than 1.
12

===== PDF PAGE 14 =====

1
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0
102 104 106 108
θ
noitalerroc
Meeting Rate
1
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0
0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1
γ
noitalerroc
Bargaining Power
1
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0
10 4 10 3 10 2 10 1 100
− − − −
σ2
z
noitalerroc
Variance of Match Productivity
1
0.5
0
10 1 100 101
−
ξ
ρ ρ ρ
x,y AKM
noitalerroc
Elasticity of Substitution
Figure 1: Comparative statics exercise in the two-sided search model extended to include
match-specific productivity. The figures show the correlation between characteristics (ρ ,
x,y
red lines), types (ρ, blue lines), and AKM fixed effects (ρ , green lines) in the matched
AKM
pairs for different parameter values. In each experiment, we keep all but one parameter at
their benchmark values, r = 1, δ = 10, θ = 104, γ = 0.5, a = 0.5, ξ = 1, σ2 = 0.1, z = 1,
z
n = 500, and indicate on the horizontal axis which parameter we are changing.
13

===== PDF PAGE 15 =====

panel shows that ρ does not produce this pattern. Instead, when the variance is low,
AKM
an increase in the variance raises the AKM correlation. This appears to reflect the fact that
when the variance is low, the expected log wage is non-monotonic in characteristics and
hence misspecification of the AKM wage equation is quantitatively serious; see Eeckhout
and Kircher (2011), Lise, Meghir, and Robin (2016), Lopes de Melo (2018), and Bagger and
Lentz (forthcoming). Thus we find a shortcoming of ρ when nonlinearities in the wage
AKM
equation are important.
Finally, we turn to the elasticity of substitution in the production function. The produc-
tion function is Leontief for ξ = 0 and linear for ξ and so sorting is less important
→ ∞
as ξ increases, as shown in the bottom right panel of Figure 1. When ξ is small, there is
positive sorting and all three measures perform well. But when ξ is sufficiently large, ρ
remains positive even though ρ and ρ are negative. This is because high x workers
x,y AKM
tend to work for low y firms, but low y firms actually pay higher wages on average. Hence,
high wage workers work for high wage firms, a pattern which our measure captures. From
wages alone, we are not able to say that the high paying firms are actually those with the low
productivity and hence in fact there is negative sorting (Eeckhout and Kircher, 2011). Nev-
ertheless, Proposition 1 proposes a test to detect the “sign flip”: when min σ2,σ2 < c, then
{ λ µ}
ρ and ρ have the opposite sign in the case of linear conditional expectations. The blue
AKM
dotted line shows the correlation adjusted for the flip sign, meaning that we plot ρ when
−
this condition is satisfied.13 The sign flip test generally picks up the negative correlation
These experiments illustrate that ρ does a good job of measuring sorting in the model
economy, especially with the sign correction. Similarly, ρ performs well in situations
AKM
where expected log wages are close to linear in worker and firm fixed effects, and hence the
AKM wage equation is well-specified. When the wage equation is seriously misspecified, as
is the case when σ2 is small, ρ can be a misleading measure of the extent of sorting.
z AKM
Nevertheless, broadly speaking we are impressed by the similarity of ρ and ρ in Figure 1.
AKM
3.3 Discrete Choice Model
We next examine a discrete choice model, a partial equilibrium version of Card, Cardoso,
Heining, and Kline (2018). There is a fixed number of workers indexed by i and a fixed
number of firms indexed by j. Each worker is characterized by x distributed according
to F(x) and each firm is characterized by y distributed according to G ˜ (y).14 Each worker
chooses which firm to work at in order to maximize his utility, the sum of the log wage
13This is the only case where we detect a sign flip in the two-sided search model.
14In equilibrium, different firms employ different numbers of workers and so the distribution of jobs G is
distinct from the distribution of firms G˜.
14

===== PDF PAGE 16 =====

w(x,y) and an idiosyncratic amenity value ε. The log wage depends deterministically on
the worker’s and firm’s characteristics, while the amenity is independently and identically
distributed across workers and firms.
Worker i sees the amenity value he would get in each firm and chooses to work for
the firm j that maximizes w(x ,y ) + ε . Each firm is willing to employ any worker who
i j i,j
wants the job. We assume that the wage function w is bounded from above for each x and
that amenities are drawn from an exponential distribution with mean (and hence standard
deviation) s. This ensures that the workers’ choice of y has a non-trivial limit when the
j
number of firms goes to infinity (Malmberg and Ho¨ssler, 2014, Theorem 18.4). In the limit,
the probability that a worker with characteristic x chooses a firm with characteristic y is
(cid:18) (cid:19)
w(x,y)
˜
Φ (y) exp dG(y).
x
∼ s
Thus workers are more likely to choose high wage jobs, but the wage becomes less important
when the standard deviation of the amenity shock, s, increases.
We again use this model as a laboratory to study performance of our correlation mea-
sure. We assume that the log wage is given by a quadratic function of the worker and firm
characteristics:
(cid:112) (cid:112)
w(x,y) = k x+k y ( k x k y)2
x y xx yy
− −
with k and k positive. Then the log wage of a worker with characteristic x is maximized
xx yy
at firm a firm with characteristic
(cid:112)
k +2 k k x
y xx yy
y (x) = .
∗
2k
yy
However, workers with characteristic x will not always choose to work at firms with charac-
teristic y (x) since their utility depends on the amenity value as well.
∗
When the characteristics x and y are distributed normally, then the joint distribution
of matched (x,y) pairs is normal and we obtain closed form expressions for types λ(x) and
µ(y), AKM fixed effects α(x) and ψ(y), and the correlations ρ, ρ , and ρ . We present
AKM x,y
the key formulae in Appendix A.3. Here we discuss some numerical results.
For our benchmark, we parameterize the wage function with k = 1, k = 0 and k =
x y xx
k = 1/a2, which implies is w(x,y) = x (x y)2/a and y (x) = x for all x. We also
yy ∗
− −
assume that worker characteristics are distributed N(m ,σ ) and firm characteristics are
x x
distributed N(m ,σ ) with m = m (the common mean is irrelevant) and σ = σ = 1.
y y x y x y
Finally, we set the standard deviation of the amenity distribution to s = 1 and set the wage
cost of mismatch to a = 1 as well. We conduct several experiments by varying key model
15

===== PDF PAGE 17 =====

parameters, s, a, m m , and σ , and measuring how sorting changes.15
x y x
−
Again, with given model parameters, the model tells us the probability that each worker
matches with each firm and so we can compute ρ . Then using the wage equation, we
x,y
find λ(x) and µ(y) from equations (1) and (2), as well as α(x) and ψ(y) from equations (8)
and (9). We then compute ρ and ρ from equations (3) and (10). Again, we ignore
AKM
questions about estimation in this section.
The top left panel of Figure 2 shows how the standard deviation of the amenity shock
affects sorting. When the standard deviation is zero, the amenity does not play any role in
workers’ decisions and each worker x chooses a firm with characteristic y (x). As a result,
∗
firms with characteristic y (x) employ only workers with characteristic x, and the correlation
∗
ρ is one. As the standard deviation increases, sorting weakens and ρ declines to zero
x,y x,y
(red line). Our correlation measure ρ exhibits the same pattern, monotonically declining
from perfect sorting to zero as amenities become more important (blue line), albeit a bit
faster than the decline in correlation ρ .
x,y
The AKM correlation ρ follows a very different pattern. In the limit as s converges
AKM
to zero, AKM attributes all the wage variation to the worker fixed effects, generating a
zero correlation between worker and firm effects. More generally, we prove that the sign of
lim ρ is the same as the sign of m m , even though there is always perfect sorting
s 0 AKM x y
→ −
between x and y (and between λ and µ) in this limit. As the standard deviation increases,
ρ becomes negative but remains close to zero. It then flips signs at s > 2. In short,
AKM
ρ does not capture the extent sorting in the underlying economy.
AKM
Interestingly, the “sign flip” test from Proposition 1 picks up the incorrect sign of ρ
AKM
when s < 2. In this region (and only in this region), we find that both σ2 > c > σ2
λ µ
and σ2 > c > σ2. If the assumptions of Proposition 1 were satisfied, this would be
α − AKM ψ
consistent with ρ = ρ . The assumptions are not satisfied, but the conclusion that the
AKM
−
two correlations have different signs still holds. We stress that it is not the sign of ρ that is
misleading in this example, but instead the sign of ρ .
AKM
The results are similar when we change the wage function by varying a. As a 0, the
→
penalty from not taking the right job goes to infinity and hence we get perfect sorting with
workers of type x choosing y (x). Both ρ and ρ are equal to 1. As a increases, workers’
∗ x,y
wages are less sensitive to their employer and so sorting weakens and eventually disappears
as a . Interestingly, the difference between ρ and ρ is negligible for all values of a.
x,y
→ ∞
Once again, ρ fails to capture sorting, especially in the region where it is nearly
AKM
perfect. The correlation ρ is again negative for a < 2, at which point it jumps up to
AKM
15Otherchangesinthewagefunction,i.e.intheparametersk ,k ,k ,andk ,areisomorphictochanges
x y xx yy
in the distribution of workers’ and firms’ characteristics, and so we omit that from our analysis.
16

===== PDF PAGE 18 =====

1
0.5
0
0.5
−
1
− 0 2 4 6 8 10
s
noitalerroc
Standard Deviation of Amenity
1
0.5
0
0.5
−
1
− 0 2 4 6 8 10
a
noitalerroc
Wage Loss
1
0.5
0
0.5
−
1
− 2 1 0 1 2
− −
m m x y
−
noitalerroc
Differences in Means
1
0.5
0
0.5
−
1
− 0 1 2 3 4 5
σ y
ρ ρ ρ
x,y AKM
noitalerroc
Standard Deviation of Firm Types
Figure 2: Comparative statics exercise in the discrete choice model. The figures show the
correlation between characteristics (ρ , red lines), types (ρ, blue lines), and AKM fixed
x,y
effects (ρ , green lines) in the matched pairs for different parameter values. In each
AKM
experiment, we keep all but one parameter at their benchmark values, a = 1, s = 1, m = 0,
x
m = 0, σ = 1, and σ = 1, and depict on the horizontal axis which parameter we are
y x y
changing.
17

===== PDF PAGE 19 =====

a positive number and then declines to zero. We can again prove that σ2 > c > σ2 and
λ µ
σ2 > c > σ2 if and only if a < 2, and so the “sign flip” test indicates that ρ and ρ
α − AKM ψ AKM
have opposite signs in this region. And again, it is the sign of ρ that is misleading.
AKM
In the next experiment, we vary the difference in means m m . The extent of sorting
x y
−
as measured by ρ does not change. This is because increasing the mean of y relative to
x,y
x induces workers to choose higher y firms, but this change is the same for all x, leaving
the correlation unaffected. The correlation ρ does depend on the difference in means but
the variation is quantitatively negligible. On the other hand, ρ varies significantly with
AKM
m m and hence fails as a measure of sorting.
x y
−
In the last experiment, we increase the variance of firm types while keeping the variance
of worker types unchanged. In the extreme case of σ2 = 0, all firms have the same type
y
and so workers only pay attention to amenities; there is no sorting in the limit without firm
variance. Asthevarianceincreases, workerspaymoreattentiontofirmcharacteristicsandso
sorting increases. However, increasing the variance too much beyond the variance of worker
types will not bring any additional improvement of sorting since few workers choose extreme
firm types. We indeed see that ρ starts at zero when σ2 = 0, and then increases steeply
x,y y
until around σ2 = 1, after which it flattens. The correlation ρ follows the same pattern,
y
while ρ again fails to capture changes in sorting.
AKM
To summarize, in the discrete choice model, ρ properly captures sorting patterns and
ρ does not. The most striking finding is that ρ is zero when there are almost
AKM AKM
no amenities (s 0) and is negative when firms are critical for wages (a 0), even
→ →
though sorting is almost perfect in each of these limits. Intuitively, nonmonotonicities in the
structural wage equation mean that the linear AKM wage equation (7) is misspecified. Even
thought it can potentially be a useful first order approximation, our calculations reveal that
in this case ρ is a poor measure of sorting.
AKM
4 An Estimator of the Measure of Sorting
Consider a data generating process, for example a structural model, which determines who
matches with whom as well as the wage and duration of each match. If we observed many
conditionally independent matches for each worker and firm, we could accurately measure λ
and µ for everyone and hence directly measure ρ. Unfortunately, in practice we have very
few observations for most workers and firms. This section proposes a strategy for estimating
ρ in realistic data sets. We start by defining a statistical model which encompasses the
structural models in Section 3. We then propose an estimator and prove it is consistent
in the statistical model. Finally we examine small sample properties of the estimator by
18

===== PDF PAGE 20 =====

looking at artificial data sets generated by our structural models.
4.1 A Dynamic Statistical Model
Ourstartingpointistoimagineadynamiceconomywhichembedsthesnapshotwedescribed
inSection2.1. Tostart, wesupposethereisafinitesetofpossiblecharacteristicX ofworkers
and Y of firms and one or more workers and firms with each characteristic. Let I denote
x
(cid:80)
the number of workers with characteristic x and I I denote the total number of
≡ x X x
∈ (cid:80)
workers. Similarly, let J denote the number of firms with characteristic y and J J
y ≡ y Y y
∈
the total number of firms. To establish consistency of our estimator, we later replicate this
economy so there are τI workers with characteristic x and τJ firms with characteristic y
x y
for some positive integer τ. We are interested in constructing an estimator of the variance-
covariance matrix of matched pairs that is consistent in the limit as τ goes to infinity.
A worker’s or firm’s characteristic determines the probability of matching with every
other firm and worker, the wage in each match, how long each match lasts, and how long
we observe the worker or firm in the data set. More precisely, a typical worker i with
characteristic x has M M,...,M ¯ matches indexed by m = 1,...,M . Let ww denote
i i ∈ { } i i,m
the average log wage in i’s mth match, tw denote the duration of the match, and y denote
i,m i,m
thefirmcharacteristicforthatmatch. Weassumethattheworker’scharacteristicdetermines
the distribution of M as well as the joint distribution of ww ,tw ,y Mi . When a worker
i { i,m i,m i,m }m=1
matches with a firm with characteristic y, there is some unspecified probability of matching
with each such firm. For example, a worker may draw randomly with or without recall. We
let j denote the identity of the employer. It will be convenient to define Tw
(cid:80)Mi
tw ,
i,m i ≡ m=1 i,m
the total time that we observe worker i employed, and denote its expected value conditional
on the worker’s characteristic by T ¯w. We assume throughout that Tw has a finite upper
xi i
¯
bound and M, the maximum number of matches a worker can have, is also finite.
¯
Symmetrically, a typical firm j with characteristic y has N N,...,N matches
j j
∈ { }
indexed by n = 1,...,N . Let wf denote the average log wage in j’s nth match, tf
j j,n j,n
denote the duration of the match, and x denote the worker characteristic for that match.
j,n
Again, the firm’s characteristic determines the distribution of N and the joint distribution
j
of wf ,tf ,x Nj . Let i denote the identity of the worker in j’s nth match. Again, we
{ j,n j,n j,n }n=1 j,n
define Tf (cid:80)Nj tf , the total time that firm j employs workers, and denote its expected
j ≡ n=1 j,n
value conditional on the firm’s characteristic as T ¯f. We again assume Tf has a finite upper
yj j
¯
bound and N is finite.
Worker and firm observations are necessarily linked. Suppose firm j employs worker i
in her mth match, i.e. j = j . We let n denote the firm’s corresponding match number.
i,m i,m
19

===== PDF PAGE 21 =====

Symmetrically, m is the match number for worker i corresponding for firm j’s nth match.
j,n j,n
This implies ww = wf , wf = ww , tw = tf , and tf = tw . With this
i,m ji,m,ni,m j,n ij,n,mj,n i,m ji,m,ni,m j,n ij,n,mj,n
notation, we can equivalently think about the observations from the perspective of either
the worker or the firm.
Building on this notation and using the definition of types in equations (1) and (2), the
averagelogwagethatworkeriwithcharacteristicx earnsduringhislifetimeandtheaverage
i
log wage that firm j with characteristic y pays are
j
E (cid:80)Mi tw ww E (cid:80)Nj tf wf
λ(x ) = xi m=1 i,m i,m and µ(y ) = yj n=1 j,n j,n . (14)
i T ¯w j T ¯f
xi yj
E E
Here the expectations operators and indicate probabilities taken with respect to the
xi yj
joint distribution of wages, durations, and numbers of matches conditional on characteristic
x and y . Weighting by spell duration defines the types to be the expected earnings at a
i j
typical point in time.
We can also compute the population mean of λ and µ, as in equation (4):
(cid:80) I T ¯wλ(x) (cid:80) J T ¯fµ(y)
w¯ ≡ (cid:80) x ∈ X x I x T ¯w = (cid:80) y ∈ Y y J y T ¯f . (15)
x X x x y Y y y
∈ ∈
Worker types are weighted by the population frequency I and the amount of time they are
x
employed T
¯w
to capture the likelihood the worker is employed in any given cross-section.
x
Similarly firm types are weighted by the amount of time they employ a worker. It is straight-
forward to prove the second equality in equation (15), that the average wage that the average
worker receives is equal to the average wage that the average firm pays. The variances,
corresponding to equation (5), are
(cid:80) I T ¯w(λ(x) w¯)2 (cid:80) J T ¯f(µ(y) w¯)2
σ λ 2 ≡ x ∈ X (cid:80) x x I T ¯w − and σ µ 2 ≡ y ∈ Y (cid:80) y y J T ¯f − . (16)
x X x x y Y y y
∈ ∈
Again we weight observations by their likelihood in the cross-section.
Next, following equation (6) we can compute the covariance between λ and µ in matched
pairs:
(cid:80) I E (cid:80)Mi tw (λ(x) w¯)(µ(y ) w¯)
c
≡
x ∈ X x x m=1 (cid:80) i,m
I T
¯w − i,m −
x X x x
(cid:80) I E (cid:80)Mi tw ∈ λ(x)µ(y )
= x ∈ X x x (cid:80) m=1 I i T , ¯ m w i,m − w¯2. (17)
x X x x
∈
20

===== PDF PAGE 22 =====

Foracharacteristicxworker, wecomputetheexpectedvalueoftheweightedaverageproduct
of the deviations of the worker’s type from the population mean and her employer’s type
from the population mean. The weight attached to each match is the duration of the match,
and hence the total weight attached to each characteristic x worker is T
¯w.
Equivalently, we
x
can look at this from the perspective of firms and write this as
(cid:80) J E (cid:80)Nj tf λ(x )µ(y)
c = y ∈ Y y y (cid:80) n=1 J j T , ¯ n f j,n − w¯2.
y Y y y
∈
This shows that the weight attached to each characteristic y firm is T
¯f.
Finally, the corre-
y
lation ρ is defined as usual in equation (3).
4.2 Auxiliary Assumptions and an Estimator
This section proposes estimators of c, σ2, and σ2 that are consistent under some reasonable
λ µ
assumptions in the limit as τ . The key assumption is that we have at least two
→ ∞
independent observations for each worker and firm. Most obviously, we impose that the
minimum number of observations for workers and firms are M 2 and N 2. Additionally,
≥ ≥
we impose four auxiliary assumptions which ensure that these observations are suitably
independent:
1. For worker i with characteristic x , ww = w¯w + εw and εw is independently and
i i,m xi i,m i,m
identically distributed across m = 1,...,M with mean zero and a finite standard
i
{ }
deviation σw. Moreover, tw and εw are independent for all (m,m) 1,...,M 2.
xi i,m i,m(cid:48) (cid:48) ∈ { i }
2. For firm j with characteristic y , wf = w¯f + εf and εf is independently and
j j,n yj j,n j,n
identically distributed across n = 1,...,N with mean zero and a finite standard
j
{ }
deviation σf . Moreover, tf and εf are independent for all (n,n) 1,...,N 2.
yj j,n j,n(cid:48) (cid:48) ∈ { j }
3. For any worker i with characteristic x and all m 1,...,M , w¯w and εw are
i ∈ { i } xi i,m(cid:48)
independent of εf for all m = m and all n = n . Moreover, for any firm j with
ji,m,n(cid:48) (cid:48)
(cid:54)
(cid:48)
(cid:54)
i,m
characteristic y and all n 1,...,N , w¯f is independent of εw for all m = m .
j ∈ { j } yj ij,n,m(cid:48) (cid:48) (cid:54) j,n
4. For all i = i, m, and m, εw and εw are independent, as are tw and tw . For all
(cid:54) (cid:48) (cid:48) i,m i(cid:48),m(cid:48) i,m i(cid:48),m(cid:48)
j = j , n, and n, εf and εf are independent, as are tf and tf .
(cid:54) (cid:48) (cid:48) j,n j(cid:48),n(cid:48) j,n j(cid:48),n(cid:48)
The two-sided matching model considered in Section 3.2 satisfies these assumptions. So does
a repeated version of the discrete choice model discussed in Section 3.3, if the amenity shock
is independently drawn in each period.
21

===== PDF PAGE 23 =====

Auxiliary Assumption 1 consists of two pieces. First, worker i’s wage is independently
and identically distributed across matches with a characteristic-specific mean w¯w and stan-
xi
dard deviation σw. Second, wages are independent of durations both in the same match and
xi
in other matches conditional on the worker’s characteristic. We recognize that this assump-
tion is strong without other restrictions and so in our empirical analysis in Section 5.2, we
construct different real-world data sets designed to ensure that this assumption is satisfied.
For example, we focus only on wages in jobs that are separated by an unemployment spell.
Auxiliary Assumption 2 imposes the analogous assumptions on firms.
Auxiliary Assumption 3 imposes that if a worker and a firm are matched at some point in
time, the error terms in their other matches are independent of each other. It also imposes
that the error in the worker’s wage equation in one match is independent of the employer
type in other matches and symmetrically that the error in the firm’s wage equation in one
match is independent of the employee type in other matches. We stress that this assumption
allows the error terms to be correlated with each other and with the partner’s mean wage
within a match, and indeed this will typically be the case.16
The first three auxiliary assumptions are useful for finding individual-level unbiased esti-
mators of worker and firm types and the covariance between them. Auxiliary Assumption 4
rules out the possibility of correlated shocks. This gives us a law of large numbers, ensuring
that the average of these unbiased estimators is consistent as the economy grows large. In
the data, we handle aggregate shocks by deflating wages by the economy-wide average wage,
but other correlations, e.g. within region or industry, may matter in practice.
Armed with these assumptions, we relate the worker and firm type to the means in the
auxiliary wage equations:
Proposition 2 A worker with characteristic x has type λ(x) = w¯w. A firm with character-
x
istic y has type µ(y) = w¯f.
y
We relegate the proof of this and all other propositions in this section to Appendix B.1.
Next we construct consistent estimators of the variance-covariance matrix of λ and µ
in matched pairs, i.e. of σ2, σ2, and c defined in equations (16) and (17). Start with the
λ µ
variance of worker types. Define
(cid:80)Mi ww (cid:80)Mi (cid:80) ww ww
λ ˆ i ≡ m= M 1 i,m and λ(cid:98)2 i ≡ m=1 M ( m M (cid:48) (cid:54) =m 1 i, ) m i,m(cid:48) , (18)
i i i
−
16One situation where the third auxiliary assumption would be problematic is if a worker and firm are
matched together multiple times, since in this case, the errors would naturally be correlated within all
matches. In our model, we can avoid this possibility if M¯ min J and N¯ min I by assuming
y∈Y y x∈X x
≤ ≤
that workers and firms sample partners without recall. In the data, we treat multiple spells with the same
employer as a single match.
22

===== PDF PAGE 24 =====

and use that to find an estimator of σ2:
λ
Proposition 3 In the limit as τ , a consistent estimator of the mean wage w¯ is
→ ∞
(cid:80)τI Twλ ˆ
wˆ¯ i=1 i i ; (19)
≡
(cid:80)τI
Tw
i=1 i
and a consistent estimator of the variance of worker types σ2 is
λ
(cid:80)τI
Twλ(cid:98)2
σ(cid:99)2 i=1 i i wˆ¯2. (20)
λ ≡ (cid:80)τI Tw −
i=1 i
We show in the proof of Proposition 3 that λ ˆ and λ(cid:98)2 defined in equation (18) are unbiased
i i
estimators of λ(x ) and λ(x )2. The proof of consistency of wˆ¯ and σ(cid:99)2 is a standard law of
i i λ
large numbers argument.
The logic for firms is identical. Define
(cid:80)Nj wf (cid:80)Nj (cid:80) wf wf
µˆ j ≡ n= N 1 j,n and µ(cid:98)2 j ≡ n=1 N ( n N (cid:48) (cid:54) =n 1 j, ) n j,n(cid:48) , (21)
j j j
−
unbiased estimators of µ(y ) and µ(y )2. Note that
j j
(cid:80)τJ Tfµˆ
wˆ¯ = j=1 j j ,
(cid:80)τJ Tf
j=1 j
since this just averages wages from the firm’s instead of the worker’s perspective. Then
Proposition 4 In the limit as τ , a consistent estimator of the variance of firm types
→ ∞
σ2 is
µ
(cid:80)τJ Tfµ(cid:98)2
σ(cid:99)2 j=1 j j wˆ¯2. (22)
µ ≡ (cid:80)τJ Tf −
j=1 j
We omit the proof, since it is isomorphic to the proof of Proposition 3.
Finally, we turn to an estimator of the product of worker and firm types. Let
(cid:80) ww (cid:80) wf
cˆ i,m
m(cid:48)
(cid:54)
=m i,m(cid:48) n(cid:48)
(cid:54)
=ni,m ji,m,n(cid:48)
. (23)
≡ M 1 N 1
i
−
ji,m
−
EachoftheM 1otherwagesww isanunbiasedestimatorofλ(x ). EachoftheN other
i
−
i,m(cid:48) i ji,m
wages wf is an unbiased estimator of µ(y ). Moreover, the third auxiliary assumption
ji,m,n(cid:48) ji,m
implies the two estimators are independent and hence the product is an unbiased estimator
of λ(x )µ(y ). We leverage this insight to get a consistent estimator of the covariance:
i yi,m
23

===== PDF PAGE 25 =====

Proposition 5 In the limit as τ , a consistent estimator of the covariance between
→ ∞
worker and firm types c is
(cid:80)τI (cid:80)Mi
tw cˆ
cˆ i=1 m=1 i,m i,m wˆ¯2. (24)
≡
(cid:80)τI
Tw −
i=1 i
Armed with consistent estimators of the covariance and two variances, it is straightforward
to construct an estimator of the correlation as
cˆ
ρˆ . (25)
(cid:113)
≡
σ(cid:99)2σ(cid:99)2
λ µ
This estimator is consistent as τ if σ and σ are both positive.
λ µ
→ ∞
Werecognizethatsomeauxiliaryassumptionsarerestrictive,inparticulartheassumption
that duration of a job tw is independent of the error in the wage equation for that job εw .
i,m i,m
This assumption is violated in many models of on-the-job search, where high wage jobs last
longerthanlowwagejobs(BurdettandMortensen, 1998). Itmayalsobeviolatedinamodel
where jobs differ in their layoff risk, in which case a high wage may serve as a compensating
differential for an unstable job (Jarosch, 2015). In Appendix C, we propose an alternative
estimator that is consistent under a different set of assumptions. In particular, we relax the
assumption that tw and εw are independent and replace it with a new assumption, that
i,m i,m
the mean and variance of duration tw are independent of w¯w. We derive an alternative
i,m xi
estimator that is consistent under these assumptions. We also show in Appendix C that our
results using Austrian data are insensitive to which estimator we use.
Formulae (18)–(25) are readily implemented in a real-world data set by setting τ = 1.
Note that in finite data sets, the estimator of σ2 in equation (20) can be negative. In
λ
this case, we say that the estimator σ(cid:99)2 is zero and the estimator of the correlation ρˆ has
λ
magnitude 1 and the same sign as the estimator of the covariance cˆ in equation (24). We
make analogous definitions if the estimator of σ2 in equation (22) is negative.17 We use these
µ
formulae throughout the rest of the paper.
4.3 Small Sample Properties of the Estimators
We next examine small sample properties of our estimator ρˆ. We create different-sized finite
artificial data sets from the two-sided search and discrete choice models introduced in Sec-
tion 3. Importantly, in each data set we keep number of observations per worker deliberately
small, 3.8 on average. For each choice of the number of workers I 2500,104,105 , we
∈ { }
17In practice, we only encounter these issues using simulated data, and only then when the true variance
is very small.
24

===== PDF PAGE 26 =====

set the number of jobs at J = I/5, which guarantees that the number of observations per
firm is also small, as in real world data.18 We explain details of the sample construction in
Appendix B.2.
For each model and each choice of I, we create B = 500 artificial samples. The actual
number of firms and workers in each sample may be smaller because we drop firms and
workers with fewer than two observations. For each sample b 1,...,B , we first compute
∈ { }
the types λ and µ from the economy with infinitely many workers and firms (Sections 3.2
and 3.3). We then use the match durations and matching network realized in sample b to
recover the variance-covariance matrix (equations 16 and 17) and hence the true correlation
ρ for that sample. Alternatively, we use log wages, match durations and the matching
b
network in sample b to find the variance-covariance matrix using formulae (20), (22), and
(24), and hence recover the feasible estimate ρˆ . We are interested in how these two measures
b
of correlation compare.
We parameterize the two-sided search model using the benchmark in Section 3.2. The
realized correlation ρ varies across samples, reflecting randomness in the matching process.
b
It is smaller in economies with fewer workers and firms because the scarcity of matches
creates randomness in who matches with whom (fifth column in Table 1). We observe that
our estimator performs well even with I 2500 workers and J = 500 firms, orders of
≤
magnitude smaller sample than a typical real world data set. As the number of workers and
firms increases, the error becomes smaller.
The bottom panel of Table 1 summarizes the results for the discrete choice model. Again,
we parameterize it with the benchmark values in Section 3.3. We treat this as a repeated
static model and assume that all matches last one period before new amenity shocks are
drawn independently. This means most workers switch jobs each period. As in the previous
model, the correlation in each particular sample is different and typically bigger in a larger
economy. We again observe that the error in the estimator is very small, even in the sample
with I 2500 workers and J = 500 firms.
≤
Figures 4 and 5 in Appendix B.3 show that we get similar results with other parameter
values. Even in samples that are orders of magnitude smaller than a typical real world data
set, the errors in the correlation estimates are typically in the third decimal place, except
when the variance of firm types is nearly equal to zero.
18We use the distribution of observations per worker in the Austrian data in the sample for men corre-
sponding to column (3) of Table 2.
25

===== PDF PAGE 27 =====

sample means distribution of ρˆ ρ
b b
−
workers firms matches matches ρ 5% mean 95%
worker firm b
Two-sided Search
2,412 500 3.9 18.7 0.757 -0.007 -0.001 0.005
9,660 2,000 3.9 18.8 0.771 -0.003 0.000 0.003
96,618 20,000 3.9 18.8 0.775 -0.001 0.000 0.001
Discrete Choice
2,496 500 4.3 21.6 0.744 -0.008 -0.001 0.006
9,996 2,000 4.4 21.8 0.748 -0.004 0.000 0.003
99,997 20,000 4.4 21.9 0.749 -0.001 0.000 0.001
Table 1: Monte Carlo simulations in the two-sided search model with match-specific produc-
tivity shocks and discrete choice model. For each choice of I,J, we create B = 500 artificial
data sets as described in the main text. The first five columns show several descriptive
statistics computed as means across samples – number of workers I, number of firms J,
number of matches per worker, number of matches per firm and true sample correlation ρ .
b
The last three columns show the mean, the 5th and 95th quartile of the error distribution,
ρˆ ρ . We parameterize the two-sided search model using the benchmark in Section 3.2.
b b
−
We parameterize the discrete choice model using the benchmark in Section 3.3.
5 Data
5.1 Data Description
We measure the correlation between worker and firm types using two panel data sets from
the Austrian social security registry (Zweimuller, Winter-Ebmer, Lalive, Kuhn, Wuellrich,
Ruf, and Buchi, 2009), the Austrian Social Security Database (ASSD) and the Arbeitsmark-
tdatenbank (AMDB, Labor Market Database). The ASSD covers the universe of workers in
the private sector from 1972 to 2007, the AMDB from 1986 to 2018.19 For each worker, each
data set contains information about every job they hold. More precisely, in every calendar
year and for every worker-firm pair,20 we observe annual earnings and days worked during
the year. In the AMDB, we see two sources of earnings, regular wage payments and bonus
payments, which we combine together to compute annual earnings. Earnings are top-coded
at the maximum social security contribution level, which rises over time.21
19The two data sets cover the same set of workers but we are not allowed to merge them, and therefore
we will treat them as two separate data sets.
20A firm is identified by its employer identification number (EIN). Some firms may have multiple EINs.
21Forexample,in2018,thecapformonthlywageearningsise5,130andthecapforannualbonuspayment
is e10,260. The fraction of male worker-firm observations affected by top-coding fell from a peak of 15.2
percentin1990to10.3percentin2018. Top-codingaffectsfarfewerfemaleworker-firmobservations,varying
from 1.7 to 4.8 percent during our sample period. We discuss the importance of top-coding for our results
in Appendix D.
26

===== PDF PAGE 28 =====

Each data set has its advantages. The AMDB covers later years while the ASSD provides
more demographic information on workers. In particular, both data sets have some limited
information on workers and firms, including workers’ birth year and sex, and region and
industryfor firms. Weobserveregistered unemploymentspellsinthe AMDBand, after1986,
in the ASSD. In the ASSD, we additionally observe whether the position is blue or white
collar, as well as the education of most workers who experience registered unemployment.
Following Card, Heining, and Kline (2013), we focus on workers age 20–60. We look
separately at men and women, but recognize that selection into employment may be a more
serious issue for women. We drop marginal jobs (less than 10 hours per week) and data
that include an apprenticeship. We note that the data sets do not have an indicator of part-
time jobs. While this might not be a serious concern for men, part-time work is prevalent
among women. Between 1994 and 2007, on average 4.7 percent of employed men and 34.0
of employed women worked part-time.22 Thus, caution is required when interpreting the
results for women.
For each worker-firm-year, we first construct a measure of the log daily wage by taking
the difference between log annual earnings, which is the sum of wages and bonus, and log
days worked. We then regress this on a full set of dummies for the calendar year and age.
The first set of dummies captures the effects of aggregate nominal wage growth, while the
secondremovesastandardage-earningsprofile. Ouranalysisfocusesonthesewageresiduals.
In most of our analysis we use AMDB data. We supplement this with ASSD data in order
to examine impact of observable characteristics.
5.2 Independence Assumptions
AuxiliaryAssumption1statesthattheerrortermsinthewageequationεw areindependent
i,m
and identically distributed across matches m for a given worker i. Auxiliary Assumption 2 is
an analogous condition on the firm side. We recognize that this might not be always satisfied
in the data. We approach this in several ways, always motivated by economic theories such
as Burdett and Mortensen (1998), Shimer and Smith (2000), and Postel-Vinay and Robin
(2002). Thesetheoriestellusthatthisconditioniseasilysatisfiedforfirmsbutnotalwaysfor
workers. In this section we explain how we select a sample of workers where the conditional
independence assumption is likely to be satisfied.
We start by selecting all workers for whom we have at least two wage observations during
the 33 years of data. This includes workers who are employed in at least two years, as well
as workers who work for two different employers in the same calendar year. We treat the
22These statistics come from the Statistical office of Austria, https://www.statistik.at.
27

===== PDF PAGE 29 =====

annual residual wage observations as independent and measure the correlation accordingly.
We call this independence assumption I.
The advantage to measuring the correlation using independence assumption I is that we
minimize sample selection issues, since we only drop workers with a single employer in a
single year. The disadvantage is that a worker’s wage at a single employer is likely to be
serially correlated, a violation of the conditional independence assumption. We therefore
take a weighted average of the residual wage at the level of the worker-firm match, weighting
by days worked, and treat this match-level wage as a single observation.23 We then select
all workers who are employed by at least two employers and measure the correlation. We
call this independence assumption II: wages are independent across matches.
We recognize that, due to job-to-job movements, residual wages might be correlated
across employment relationships. To understand the problem, consider the job ladder model
from Burdett and Mortensen (1998). There, an employed worker accepts a job offer from
anotherfirmifandonlyifitpaysahigherwage. Thismeansthatthewageinjobsheldbefore
andafterthejob-to-jobtransitionarecorrelated. Accordingtothismodel, anunemployment
spell breaks this correlation and so wages in two employment relationships separated by an
unemployment spell are independent. Guided by these insights, we select all workers with
at least two employment spells separated by a spell of registered unemployment and take
the match-level wage in the longest job during each employment spell. This is independence
assumption III: wages are independent across employment spells.
AccordingtoBurdettandMortensen(1998)andPostel-VinayandRobin(2002),thewage
in any two jobs during different employment spells are conditionally independent; however,
they are not necessarily identically distributed. For example, the first accepted wage out
of unemployment comes from a lower distribution than subsequent wages. To address this
concern, we select only workers with at least two uncensored employmenet spells (that is,
workerswithUEUEUtransitions, whereErepresentsanemploymentspellandUaregistered
unemployment spell). For these workers, we consider three different wage measures. First,
during any employment spell that starts and ends with an unemployment spell, we measure
the average wage in the longest job. Second, for any employment spell that starts out of
unemployment, we measure the average wage in the first job out of unemployment. Third,
for any employment spell that ends with unemployment, we measure the average wage in
the last job before unemployment. In many models with on-the-job search, any such wage
observations are independently and identically distributed. We call all of these independence
assumption IV.
23RecallsarecommonintheAustrianlabormarket(PichelmannandRiedel,1992). Wetreatallinstances
where a worker is employed by a firm as a single observation.
28

===== PDF PAGE 30 =====

We comment on how we handle multiple matches between the same worker and firm.
This happens if a match between a worker and a firm lasts more than one year or if a
worker is employed by the same firm at two different times of his career. We treat both
these situations in the same way. Under independence assumption I, we treat each annual
wage observation for a worker-firm pair as a different match and hence by construction,
workers have multiple matches with the same employer. As noted, this is unlikely to be
consistent with our auxiliary assumptions. Under independence assumptions II, III, and
IV, we combine all wage observations of a single worker-firm match into one observation by
constructing the average wage. If the wage observations are separated by an unemployment
spell, we drop that unemployment spell from our analysis. Thus we are left with at most
one match between a worker and firm.
Our approach requires at least two observations for each worker and each firm. After
making the inial selection of workers, as described above, we trim our data set by first
dropping any firm that only employs a single worker in the data set. If this leaves any of the
workerswithasinglewageobservation, wedropthemfromthedataaswell. Werepeat. This
process necessarily stops in a finite number of steps, either with an empty data set or with
a data set containing the largest set of workers with multiple employers and employers with
multiple workers in that data set. In our case the resulting data set is always non-empty.
There is a tradeoff when we impose stricter independence assumptions, i.e. go from as-
sumption I to assumption IV. On the one hand, our auxiliary assumptions are more plausible
whenweimposestricterassumptions. Ontheotherhand, thesamplebecomesmoreselected.
The concern is that the distribution of worker characteristics F(x), the conditional distribu-
tion of jobs given worker characteristics Φ (y), and the wage equation w(x,y,z) change as
x
we restrict the sample. Since our definition of the correlation ρ depends on these objects, one
would expect the correlation to differ across samples, even if our auxiliary assumptions were
satisfied in all these samples. We address these selection issues explicitly when we discuss
our results, which we turn to next.
6 Estimated Correlation between Types
6.1 Main Results
Table 2 shows the main results for men and women. We estimate the correlation and
covariancebetweenmatchedworkerandfirmtypes, aswellasthevarianceoftypes. Different
columns correspond to different independence assumptions.
Column (1) of Table 2 uses independence assumption I to construct the correlation.
29

===== PDF PAGE 31 =====

Estimated Correlation and Variances
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6)
Men
correlation of matched types ρˆ 0.669 0.555 0.473 0.488 0.463 0.469
covariance of matched types cˆ 0.065 0.042 0.027 0.027 0.026 0.028
variance of worker types σ(cid:99)2 0.107 0.075 0.051 0.051 0.051 0.054
λ
variance of job types σ(cid:99)2 0.090 0.075 0.062 0.059 0.063 0.066
µ
number of workers (thousands) 3,884 2,916 1,646 971 971 970
number of firms (thousands) 705 532 343 272 273 276
number of observations (thousands) 64,359 16,401 7,211 4,883 4,881 4,880
share of observations top-coded 0.112 0.074 0.047 0.020 0.009 0.012
Women
correlation of matched types ρˆ 0.615 0.440 0.423 0.459 0.432 0.443
covariance of matched types cˆ 0.090 0.042 0.031 0.033 0.030 0.033
variance of worker types σ(cid:99)2 0.168 0.094 0.063 0.066 0.060 0.066
λ
variance of job types σ(cid:99)2 0.127 0.097 0.085 0.080 0.080 0.082
µ
number of workers (thousands) 3,340 2,532 1,494 798 798 797
number of firms (thousands) 758 530 345 249 248 250
number of observations (thousands) 52,128 12,451 5,582 3,294 3,294 3,291
share of observations top-coded 0.035 0.031 0.021 0.009 0.004 0.005
independence assumption I II III IV IV IV
observations included all all longest longest first last
Table 2: Estimates of correlations, covariances, and variances between matched workers’
and firms’ types using AMDB 1986–2018. All columns use residual log wages, obtained by
regressing log wages on year and age dummies. Columns (2)–(6) aggregate residual wages
to the worker-firm match level by taking a weighted average of wages within the match
across years. Before applying our method, we iteratively drop firms and workers with a
single wage observation. Each column uses a different sample to estimate the correlation.
Independence assumption I includes workers with at least two firm-year wage observations
and treats each year as an independent observation. Independence assumption II includes
workers with at least two distinct employers and treats each employer as an independent
observation. Independence assumption III includes workers with at least two employment
spells and treats the longest jobs during each employment spell as independent observations.
Independence assumption IV includes workers with at least two uncensored employment
spells and treats either the longest (4), first (5), or last (6) job during each employment spell
as independent observations.
30

===== PDF PAGE 32 =====

This treats any two firm-year observations for a given worker as independent. We see that
the correlation ρˆ is high, above 0.6 for both men and women. It seems unlikely, however,
that this data set satisfies our auxiliary assumptions. First, the error term is likely to be
serially correlated within a worker-firm match, violating auxiliary assumptions 1 and 2.
Second, the worker and firm errors are likely correlated within a match. If a match lasts
for multiple periods, this correlation lasts across multiple observations, violating the third
auxiliary assumption. We therefore do not find these numbers credible.
Column (2) uses the more plausible independence assumption II to construct the correla-
tion, aggregating wage observations to the level of the worker-firm match. Each component
of the correlation drops, and so does the correlation. There are two potential explanations
for this drop. On the one hand, we expect that independence assumption I is incorrect and
so the resulting correlation in column (2) is biased. On the other hand, we lose some workers
going from column (1) to column (2) and so the drop can reflect the changing sample. To
evaluate importance of these two explanations, we take the firms and workers from column
(2) and impose independence assumption I. That is, we treat any two firm-year observations
for a given worker as independent. The estimated correlation is 0.644 for men and 0.585
for women, only slightly smaller than the numbers in column (1). This suggests that the
difference between columns (1) and (2) is driven primarily by a violation of our auxiliary
assumptions in column (1), with a bias reduction in column (2).
WenextturntoindependenceassumptionIII,whichtreatswageobservationsfromdiffer-
ent employment spells as independent, as in standard theories of on-the-job search. Column
(3) shows a drop in the estimated correlation both for men and women, even though the
change for women is small. To evaluate the importance of selection and bias, we take the
sample of workers and firms from (3) and impose independence assumption II. That is, we
use all matches of these workers. The estimated correlation is 0.502 for men and 0.415 for
women. In this case, selection plays a significant role for both men and women, although
there is also some bias for men. Nevertheless, we view the estimates in column (3) as a
reasonable baseline.
Finally, we look at independence assumption IV, which recognizes that wage observations
at different points during different employment spells are independent but not identically
distributed. Columns (4), (5), and (6) look at the longest, first, and last job during multiple
employment spells. These estimates are remarkably similar to the correlation in column (3),
both for men and women.
In summary, dropping the biased estimates in column (1), the estimated correlation
between types ranges from 0.463 to 0.555 for men, and from 0.423 to 0.459 for women. The
exact number depends on the independence assumption. As we move from the independence
31

===== PDF PAGE 33 =====

assumption I to IV, the auxiliary assumptions are more likely to be satisfied. The downside
is that each concept imposes additional restrictions on the sample. We choose to focus on
the results in column (3) because we believe those are likely to satisfy the independence
assumption while minimizing the sample selection issues in the last three columns.
We note that in each column of Table 2, min σ(cid:99)2,σ(cid:99)2 > cˆ. Viewed through the lens
{ λ µ}
of Proposition 1, this suggests we are not in the case where we need to worry about our
correlation giving the opposite sign as the AKM correlation.
6.2 Top Coding
In our baseline results in Table 2 column (3), top-coding affects 4.7 percent of men’s obser-
vations and 2.1 percent of women.24 To assess the importance of top-coding, we propose
making the top-coding more severe in each year.25 Figure 6 in Appendix D shows that for
men, the estimated correlation is nearly independent of the share of top-coded observations.
For women, the estimated correlation is a decreasing function of the share observations that
are top-coded. Extrapolating to a lower share of top-coded observations suggests that in the
absence of top-coding, the estimated correlation for women might be slightly higher.
6.3 Confidence Intervals
We construct confidence intervals using a bootstrap procedure. Our main approach to the
bootstrap involves constructing artificial data sets that generate the moments reported in
Table 2, including the variances of worker and firm types, the covariance of matched workers’
and firms’ types, as well as the variance of log wages, the distribution of the number of
matches per worker and firm, and the joint distribution across matches of the durations of
workers’ jobs. The artificial data sets also target the number of workers and firms but do
not hit this exactly. They do not target who matches with whom, i.e. the structure of the
network of matches, or the wage paid in each match. Appendix E describes how we construct
these artificial data sets.
We construct B = 500 artificial data sets. For each data set b = 1,...,B, we know the
data generating process and hence we know each worker’s and firm’s type λ and µ. We then
24We consider the log wage for a worker-firm pair to be top-coded if at least one annual wage or bonus
observationforthatworker-firmpairistop-coded,andreporttheshareofsuchworker-firmpairobservations.
The share of top-coded observations increases to 6.7 percent for men and remains unchaged at 2.1 percent
for women if we look at calculate share of the annual worker-firm observations which are top-coded.
25The usual approach involves imputing values to the top-coded observations (see for example, Card,
Heining, and Kline, 2013). Interpreting either approach requires an assumption that the behavior of top-
codedobservationsissimilartothebehaviorofotherhighwages. Webelieveourapproachismoretransparent
and easier to implement.
32

===== PDF PAGE 34 =====

compare the actual correlation between types, ρ , with the correlation estimated using our
b
approach, ρˆ . We construct confidence intervals using the difference ρ ρˆ as described
b b b
−
in Appendix F. We find that this difference is typically small and is centered around zero,
as one would expect for a consistent and unbiased estimator. For example, in column (3)
of Table 2, the estimated correlation for men is ρˆ = 0.4732 and the 95 percent confidence
interval is [0.4719,0.4746]. For women, the estimated correlation is ρˆ = 0.4231 and the 95
percent confidence interval is [0.4214,0.4249]. The results in the other columns are similar.
A drawback of our artificial data sets is that the network structure in the artificial and
real-world data differ in some important dimensions. For example, in the real-world data,
about 3 percent of a typical worker’s coworkers at one employer are also coworkers at another
one of her employers. In our artificial data, this happens about 0.1 percent of the time. We
propose an alternative procedure to address this concern. We hold fixed the set of matches
in real-world data and draw random types for each worker and firm. We then draw wages
for each match in a manner that is consistent with the definition of types. Unfortunately,
generatingtypesthatareconsistentwiththerealworldcorrelationstructurerequiresdrawing
a correlated random vector of dimension I+J, which is computationally infeasible. Instead,
we ask what we would measure if the correlation between types were zero. If the true value of
ρ were zero, 95 percent of the time our approach using the matching network in column (3)
would have generated estimates of ρˆbetween 0.0040 and 0.0034 for men between 0.0055
− −
and 0.0050 for women. It is vanishingly unlikely that the Austrian data could have been
generated from an economy without sorting.
6.4 Other Observable Characteristics
We now examine how controlling for fixed observable characteristics of workers and firms
affects the estimated correlation. We use ASSD data set in this section because it provides
more observable characteristics than AMDB data. This data has registered unemployment
spells over a shorter time period, from 1986 to 2007, and so we first replicate column (3) of
Table 2 on this shorter sample. Column (1) in Table 3 shows that the correlation is slightly
lower in this earlier sample.
We now relax the assumption that a firm has the same type (expected wage) for all its
employees. Effectively we break a firm into different types for employees with different skill
levels and estimate the correlation between types on this adjusted data set. To start, treat
a firm j as a cross between a firm identifier and a worker’s education level. We use five
different education categories: no completed education, middle school, technical secondary
school, academicsecondaryschool, andcollege. Westartwiththesamedatasetasincolumn
33

===== PDF PAGE 35 =====

Impact of Observables
(1) (2) (3) (4)
men
correlation of matched types ρˆ 0.439 0.521 0.525 0.580
covariance of matched types cˆ 0.019 0.023 0.024 0.028
variance of worker types σ(cid:99)2 0.039 0.039 0.041 0.049
λ
variance of job types σ(cid:99)2 0.049 0.052 0.052 0.047
µ
number of workers (thousands) 1,101 949 1,045 917
number of firms (thousands) 234 337 247 181
number of observations (thousands) 4,376 3,895 3,975 2,706
share of observations top-coded 0.078 0.071 0.074 0.070
women
correlation of matched types ρˆ 0.418 0.505 0.523 0.527
covariance of matched types cˆ 0.028 0.036 0.040 0.038
variance of worker types σ(cid:99)2 0.061 0.061 0.066 0.072
λ
variance of job types σ(cid:99)2 0.075 0.083 0.088 0.072
µ
number of workers (thousands) 951 786 895 646
number of firms (thousands) 238 315 241 163
number of observations (thousands) 3,190 2,660 2,757 1,787
share of observations top-coded 0.054 0.024 0.028 0.022
independence assumption III III III III
education no yes no no
white/blue collar no no yes no
industry no no no yes
Table 3: Results controlling for education, job classification, and industry using ASSD 1986–
2007. Allcolumnsuseresiduallogwages,aggregatedtotheworker-firmmatchlevelbytaking
a weighted average of wages within the match across years. All columns use independence
assumption III, treating the longest jobs during each employment spell as independent ob-
servations. Column (1) shows results without controlling for any observables. In column (2),
we treat each firm education category as a separate firm. In column (3), we treat each
×
worker job position and firm job position as different workers and firms. In column (4),
× ×
we treat each worker industry as different workers. We adjust the counts of workers and
×
firms accordingly.
34

===== PDF PAGE 36 =====

(1) of Table 3, but lose about ten percent of workers because they are missing education
data.26 We then drop firm education observations that only appear once in the data set.
×
This in turn forces us to drop some workers, etc. Finally, we measure the correlation between
the remaining worker and firm education types. Table 3 column (2) shows that allowing
×
firm types to differ by educational category raises the correlation between matched types
from 0.439 to 0.521 for men and from 0.418 to 0.505 for women. This is consistent with
the view that firms are a collection of heterogeneous jobs and so ignoring that heterogeneity
causes us to underestimate the true correlation.
We proceed in a similar way with the type of position, treating a firm identifier as distinct
for white and blue collar jobs. Even though the type of position is a permanent characteristic
for the majority of workers, some do hold both blue and white collar jobs, and thus we treat
a worker at different positions as a different worker type as well. This again substantially
raises the estimated correlation to 0.525 for men and 0.523 for women, see Table 3 column
(3). Again, we interpret this as evidence that firms are collections of heterogeneous jobs and
sorting occurs both across firms and across job categories within firms.
Finally, we investigate the role of industry. We use ten one-digit SIC industry categories.
These are fixed at the firm level but workers switch industries, in which case we treat them
as if they were different individuals. Even though we start from the same set of workers and
firms, we lose observations when the worker does not hold two jobs in the same industry,
about 38 percent of the observations for men and 37 percent for women. The correlation
between the remaining matched workers and jobs is the highest yet, 0.580 for men and 0.527
for women, reported in Table 3 column (4). In summary, the headline numbers in Table 2
significantly understate the amount of sorting in the economy because they ignore the fact
thatfirmsarecollectionsofheterogeneousjobsandworkers’typechangesovertime. Itseems
plausible that if we could account for unobserved time-varying heterogeneity, the measured
correlation would increase further.
6.5 Time Series
Our approach is amenable to time series analysis. To see this, we redo all of our analysis
using only a single year’s data at a time. That is, we measure the average log wage for a
worker-firm pair using only wage information from the considered year, even if the match
exists in other years. We focus throughout on independence assumption III, selecting the
26Missingeducationdataisnotrandom,evenconditionalonunemployment. Thosemen(women)without
education data earn a residual log wage that is 0.19 (0.16) standard deviations higher than the average
residual log wage of workers with recorded education. Furthermore, workers with missing education have
fewer employment spells on average, 2.4 compared to 4.1 for men, and 2.3 compared to 3.4 for women.
35

===== PDF PAGE 37 =====

0.60
0.55
0.50
men
0.40
women
0.35
0.30
1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015
year
ˆρ
noitalerroc
men women
Figure 3: Year-by-year correlation between worker and firm types under independence as-
sumption III, using AMDB 1986–2018. Thick solid lines are computed year-by-year and
shaded areas are bootstrapped 95 percent confidence intervals. For each year, the sample
considers all workers who switched employers after an unemployment spell within that year,
and includes one job for each employment spell of these workers. The sample only includes
the wage observations for that year, even if the match continued in other years. The thin
horizontal lines are correlations computed in samples constructed by pooling all year-by-year
samples together.
last job before the unemployment spell and the first job after the unemployment spell.
Using only those workers who switch employers after an unemployment spell within a
year reduces our sample size from 1.6 million workers to an average of 62,000 workers per
year for men, and from 1.5 million to 36,000 for women. This is still sufficiently large to
estimate the annual correlation between worker and firm types. Figure 3 shows that the
correlation between worker and firm types increased slightly for men, from an initial 0.427
in 1986 to around 0.489 in 1997, where it stayed until 2007. We see another increase in
the correlation in the last ten years, reaching 0.551 in year 2018. The figure also shows a
general downward trend in the correlation for women. In both cases, the bootstrapped 95
percent confidence intervals are small in every year. The stability of these estimates from
year-to-year provides additional support for our methodology.
The annual correlations average 0.493 for men and 0.425 for women, very similar to the
correlations of 0.473 and 0.423 reported in column (3) of Table 2 using the full sample. This
36

===== PDF PAGE 38 =====

reflects a combination of two different forces. First, the sample of workers is different, since
for the time series analysis we use workers who have multiple employment spells within a
year, while some workers may have multiple spells, but only in different years. To assess the
importance of this, we pool the samples from the time series analysis and estimate a single
correlation, 0.454 for men and 0.376 for women.27 Since these are smaller than the numbers
reported in column (3) of Table 2, we conclude that sample selection reduces the measured
correlation.
Second, in the time series analysis, workers and firms are not linked across years and
hence a worker in one year is treated independently of the same worker in a different year. If
types change over time in ways that are not captured by age dummies in a wage regression,
the correlation in the pooled sample will understate the correlation at any point in time since
the time-average types λ and µ are noisy measures of the time-varying types λ and µ .
i j i,t j,t
In Appendix G, we establish this formally when conditional expectations are linear. This
suggests yet another reason why the estimates in Table 2 understate the amount of sorting
between workers and firms.
One possible concern with our results in this section is that we focus on the last job in
one employment spell and the first job in the next spell. Although the wages in these jobs
may be independent, theory tells us that they are not drawn from the same distribution.
Indeed, in our data there are level differences in wages within a spell: the mean log wage
in the first job after unemployment is lower than the mean log wage in the second job,
which is lower than in the third job, etc.. There are two reasons why we believe that this is
not a major issue. First, the estimated correlation using only first jobs or only last jobs in
each employment spell is very similar; see columns (5) and (6) in Table 2. Second, we have
regressed log wages on the job’s order within a spell, in addition to age and year dummies,
before constructing wage residuals. This additional control has little quantitative impact on
the correlations in Figure 3.
7 Comparison with the AKM Correlation
The standard method of measuring whether high wage workers take high wage jobs is due to
Abowd, Kramarz, and Margolis (1999). The authors propose running a linear regression of
log wages against a worker fixed effect α and a firm fixed effect ψ, as in equation (7). This
ˆ
gives them estimates of each fixed effect, αˆ for all i and ψ for all j. They then compute the
i j
27In this pooled sample, we aggregate all worker-firm-year residual wages back to the worker-firm level by
computing an average log wage over years. We then keep only the longest match in each employment spell.
The sample contains 949,508 men and 688,427 women.
37

===== PDF PAGE 39 =====

Comparison with AKM Correlation
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6)
Men
ρˆ 0.662 0.555 0.473 0.488 0.463 0.468
ρˆ 0.086 0.202 0.122 0.053 0.018 0.029
AKM
number of workers (thousands) 3,862 2,915 1,646 971 971 970
number of firms (thousands) 682 532 343 272 273 276
number of observations (thousands) 64,193 16,400 7,211 4,883 4,881 4,880
share of observations top-coded 0.112 0.074 0.047 0.020 0.009 0.012
Women
ρˆ 0.606 0.440 0.423 0.459 0.432 0.443
ρˆ 0.026 0.093 0.067 0.061 0.047 0.057
AKM
number of workers (thousands) 3,305 2,532 1,494 798 798 797
number of firms (thousands) 720 530 345 249 248 250
number of observations (thousands) 51,813 12,450 5,582 3,294 3,294 3,291
share of observations top-coded 0.035 0.031 0.021 0.009 0.004 0.005
independence assumption I II III IV IV IV
observations included all all longest longest first last
Table 4: Comparison of our estimates of correlation and AKM fixed effects estimates using
AMDB 1986–2018. Both ρ and ρ are estimated on the largest connected set. Otherwise
AKM
the data construction is identical to Table 2. See the notes to that table for details.
ˆ
correlation between αˆ and ψ in matched pairs. As we mentioned in the introduction, a fair
i j
summary of the extensive literature that follows that paper is that the estimated correlation
is close to zero and sometimes negative.
Table4verifiesthatthisistruewithourapproachtothedata. Weusethesameapproach
as in Table 2, with one difference: the AKM correlation is only identified on the largest
connected set of workers and firms and so we work with this set. Comparing Tables 2 and
4, we see that very few workers and firms are not part of the largest connected set and so
unsurprisinglythishaslittleeffectonourestimateρˆ. WethenestimatetheAKMcorrelation.
The exact formulae for the duration-weighted estimator ρˆ are in Appendix H.1. Our
AKM
estimates lie between 0.018 and 0.202 for men and 0.026 and 0.093 for women. Across the six
columns, thefixedeffectscorrelationisonaverage0.433belowourestimateofthecorrelation
for men and 0.409 below our estimate of the correlation for women.
Why is the estimated correlation between the AKM fixed effects so much smaller than
the estimated correlation between our measure of types? There are two possible reasons.
First, Section 3 shows that ρ is typically, possibly always, larger than ρ , and in struc-
AKM
tural models the differences may be substantial. We also argued that our correlation better
38

===== PDF PAGE 40 =====

captures the extent of sorting in the real economy when these two measures are different.
Second, a number of authors have noted that the estimator of the AKM correlation using
an OLS regression, ρˆ , does not generally converge to ρ in a large data set (Postel-
AKM AKM
Vinay and Robin, 2006; Barth and Dale-Olsen, 2003; Abowd, Kramarz, Lengermann, and
P´erez-Duarte, 2004). Instead, consistency requires that the number of independent obser-
vations per worker and firm goes to infinity holding fixed the number of workers and firms.
This is not a natural feature of real-world data sets. For example, even using 33 years of
Austrian data, the median worker has two employers and the median firm has three em-
ployees. The literature has called this incidental parameters problem “limited mobility bias”
and proved that it leads to an underestimate of the AKM covariance and an overestimate of
the standard deviation of worker and firm fixed effects. Together these imply ρ > ρˆ
AKM AKM
when the former is positive.
The literature has offered some solutions to the limited mobility bias problem; see Ap-
pendix H.2 for details. We find that the bias corrections proposed in Andrews, Gill, Schank,
and Upward (2008) and Kline, Saggio, and Sølvsten (2019) give us estimates of ρ that
AKM
are much smaller than our estimate of ρ. For example, under independence assumption III,
our estimate of the ρ is 0.46 for men and 0.39 for women, while the OLS estimate of ρ is
AKM
0.02 for men and 0.05 for women.28 The Andrews, Gill, Schank, and Upward (2008) bias
− −
correction turns the estimate of ρ positive but still small, 0.10 for both men and women.
AKM
The correction in Kline, Saggio, and Sølvsten (2019) increases this a bit more, to 0.11 for
men and 0.10 for women. On the other hand, the approach in Bonhomme, Lamadon, and
Manresa (2019) has a much bigger effect on the results, increasing the correlation to 0.30 for
men and 0.29 for women, although this is still one-third smaller than our estimates of the
correlation.
Table 5 shows that the results are qualitatively similar in other samples, with our mea-
sure of correlation always somewhat larger than the estimate of the AKM correlation from
Bonhomme, Lamadon, and Manresa (2019), which in turn is bigger than the bias-corrected
estimates in 2008 and Kline, Saggio, and Sølvsten (2019), which are again bigger than the
OLS estimates of the AKM correlation. Our reading of the literature is that there is no
agreement yet about which (if any) of these methods reliably estimates ρ in finite sam-
AKM
ples. For this reason, we do not know whether the difference between our estimates of ρ and
existing estimates of ρ reflect conceptual differences between the two concepts or biases
AKM
in estimating ρ . In the former case, we argued in Section 3 that there are theoretical
AKM
28These are different than the numbers in Table 4 because the bias corrections impose some restrictions
on how we look at the data. The two most important ones are that we use exactly two matches for each
worker and that we cannot weight any of the estimates by duration. Again, see Appendix H.2 for details.
39

===== PDF PAGE 41 =====

Comparison with Bias-Corrected Estimates of AKM Correlation
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6)
Men
ρˆ 0.679 0.582 0.460 0.436 0.426 0.433
ρˆ , OLS -0.098 0.042 -0.020 -0.056 -0.080 -0.080
AKM
ρˆ , AGSU -0.043 0.152 0.098 0.069 0.061 0.074
AKM
ρˆ , KSS 0.048 0.165 0.106 0.082 0.073 0.088
AKM
ρˆ , BLM 0.259 0.350 0.300 0.309 0.267 0.291
AKM
number of workers (thousands) 3,459 2,800 1,577 908 907 906
number of firms (thousands) 186 302 229 166 166 169
number of observations (thousands) 6,918 5,601 3,154 1,816 1,815 1,811
share of observations top-coded 0.0550 0.086 0.068 0.027 0.010 0.014
Women
ρˆ 0.595 0.378 0.386 0.434 0.426 0.438
ρˆ , OLS -0.149 -0.053 -0.055 -0.048 -0.074 -0.070
AKM
ρˆ , AGSU -0.104 0.046 0.101 0.162 0.153 0.172
AKM
ρˆ , KSS -0.022 0.048 0.103 0.173 0.165 0.187
AKM
ρˆ , BLM 0.122 0.254 0.292 0.364 0.362 0.341
AKM
number of workers (thousands) 2,816 2,409 1,425 738 738 736
number of firms (thousands) 172 311 241 158 157 159
number of observations (thousands) 5,631 4,818 2,849 1,476 1,476 1,473
share of observations top-coded 0.015 0.030 0.025 0.010 0.004 0.005
independence assumption I II III IV IV IV
observations included all all longest longest first last
Table 5: Estimates of the correlation ρ and the AKM correlation using different methods,
using AMDB 1986–2018. The initial data construction is identical to Table 2 but we further
restrict the sample to the largest leave-one-out connected set where every worker has exactly
two distinct employers, and every firm employs at least two workers. The estimates are not
weighted by duration. ρˆ is our measure of sorting. ρˆ , OLS is the OLS estimate of the
AKM
AKM correlation. ρˆ , AGSU uses the Andrews, Gill, Schank, and Upward (2008) bias
AKM
correction. ρˆ , KSS uses the Kline, Saggio, and Sølvsten (2019) correction. ρˆ , BLM
AKM AKM
uses the mixture model in Bonhomme, Lamadon, and Manresa (2019).
40

===== PDF PAGE 42 =====

reasons to prefer ρ to ρ . In the latter case, there are pragmatic reasons for estimating
AKM
ρ, since we know how to do it.
8 Conclusion
This paper proposes a new measure of sorting, the correlation between a worker’s average
wage and her employer’s average wage. We find that this measure performs at least as well as
the AKM correlation in a variety of structural models. We then propose an estimator of the
correlation that is consistent in data sets with many workers and firms but few observations
for each worker and firm. Using Austrian data, we find strong evidence for sorting between
high wage workers and high wage firms. The correlation between a worker’s type and her
employer’s type exceeds 0.4 and has been growing over time for men but shrinking for
women. This contrasts with the previous literature, which has used the AKM approach and
concluded that there is little sorting of high wage workers into high wage jobs. Whether this
reflects theoretical limitations of the AKM measure of sorting or biases in estimating the
AKM measure of sorting remains an open question.
We have focused in this paper on measuring sorting between workers and firms, but our
empirical approach may be useful in a variety of other settings. For example, our approach
can measure sorting between firms and banks in the corporate loan market. It can measure
sorting of innovators into teams, as well as sorting between innovators and innovating firms.
Our approach can detect whether schools assign better students to better teachers. In short,
our methodology applies to any setting where we know the identity of both parties in a
match and can observe an outcome for the pair.
Is our measured correlation large? This is a quantitative question that goes beyond the
scope of this paper. Still, there are reasons to think that our approach understates the true
extent of sorting. We have already mentioned three such reasons: we focus only on workers
who experience unemployment, while those who are continuously employed appear to have
a higher correlation; workers’ types change over time, arguably more dramatically during a
spell of registered unemployment (Ljungqvist and Sargent, 1998); and firms are collections
of heterogeneous jobs at a point in time and so there is not really a single firm type that
is applicable to all workers. Even in a frictionless environment, one would not expect to
see many firms that only hire high wage workers, since real-world production processes and
hierarchies utilize a mix of skills (Garicano, 2000).
Inclosing, wementiononemorereasonwhywemaybeunderstatingtheextentofsorting:
our approach focuses only on vertical sorting as captured through wages. Horizontal sorting
of similarly-paid workers with different skills is likely also important (Lindenlaub, 2017;
41

===== PDF PAGE 43 =====

Lindenlaub and Postel-Vinay, 2017). Our estimated correlations therefore suggest that the
labor market effectively gets the highest wage workers together at the highest wage firms.
References
Abowd, John M., Robert H. Creecy, and Francis Kramarz (2002). “Computing person and
firm effects using linked longitudinal employer-employee data”. Center for Economic
Studies, US Census Bureau.
Abowd, John M., Francis Kramarz, Paul Lengermann, and S´ebastien P´erez-Duarte (2004).
“Are Good Workers Employed by Good Firms? A Test of a Simple Assortative Matching
Model for France and the United States”. Mimeo.
Abowd, John M., Francis Kramarz, and David N. Margolis (1999). “High Wage Workers and
High Wage Firms”. Econometrica 67.2, pp. 251–333.
Andrews, Martyn J., Leonard Gill, Thorsten Schank, and Richard Upward (2008). “High
Wage Workers and Low Wage Firms: Negative Assortative Matching or Limited Mobility
Bias?” Journal of the Royal Statistical Society: Series A (Statistics in Society) 171.3,
pp. 673–697.
Bagger,Jesper,Fran¸coisFontaine,FabienPostel-Vinay,andJean-MarcRobin(2014).“Tenure,
Experience, Human Capital, and Wages: A Tractable Equilibrium Search Model of Wage
Dynamics”. American Economic Review 104.6, pp. 1551–1596.
Bagger,JesperandRasmusLentz(forthcoming).“AnEquilibriumModelofWageDispersion
and Sorting”. Review of Economic Studies.
Bagger, Jesper, Kenneth L Sørensen, and Rune Vejlin (2013). “Wage Sorting Trends”. Eco-
nomics Letters 118.1, pp. 63–67.
Barth, Erling and Harald Dale-Olsen (2003). “Assortative Matching in the Labour Market?
Stylised Facts about Workers and Plants”. Mimeo.
Becker, Gary S. (1973). “A Theory of Marriage: Part I”. Journal of Political Economy 81.4,
pp. 813–846.
Bonhomme, St´ephane, Thibaut Lamadon, and Elena Manresa (2019). “A Distributional
Framework for Matched Employer Employee Data”. Econometrica 87.3, pp. 699–738.
Burdett, Kenneth and Dale Mortensen (1998). “Wage Differentials, Employer Size, and Un-
employment”. International Economic Review 39.2, pp. 257–73.
42

===== PDF PAGE 44 =====

Card, David, Ana Rute Cardoso, Joerg Heining, and Patrick Kline (2018). “Firms and Labor
MarketInequality: Evidenceand Some Theory”. Journal of Labor Economics 36.S1, S13–
S70.
Card,David,Jo¨rgHeining,andPatrickKline(2013).“WorkplaceHeterogeneityandtheRise
of West German Wage Inequality”. Quarterly Journal of Economics 128.3, pp. 967–1015.
Christensen, Bent Jesper, Rasmus Lentz, Dale T. Mortensen, George R. Neumann, and
Axel Werwatz (2005). “On-the-Job Search and the Wage Distribution”. Journal of Labor
Economics 23.1, pp. 31–58.
Eeckhout, Jan and Philipp Kircher (2011). “Identifying Sorting—In Theory”. Review of
Economic Studies 78.3, pp. 872–906.
Garicano, Luis (2000). “Hierarchies and the Organization of Knowledge in Production”.
Journal of Political Economy 108.5, pp. 874–904.
Gouss´e, Marion, Nicolas Jacquemet, and Jean-Marc Robin (2017). “Marriage, Labor Supply,
and Home Production”. Econometrica 85.6, pp. 1873–1919.
Gruetter,MaxandRafaelLalive(2009).“TheImportanceofFirmsinWageDetermination”.
Labour Economics 16.2, pp. 149–160.
Hagedorn, Marcus, Tzuo Hann Law, and Iourii Manovskii (2017). “Identifying Equilibrium
Models of Labor Market Sorting”. Econometrica 85.1, pp. 29–65.
Iranzo, Susana, Fabiano Schivardi, and Elisa Tosetti (2008). “Skill Dispersion and Firm
Productivity: An Analysis with Employer-Employee Matched Data”. Journal of Labor
Economics 26.2, pp. 247–285.
Jarosch, Gregor (2015). “Searching for Job Security and the Consequences of Job Loss”.
Mimeo.
Jochmans, Koen and Martin Weidner (2019). “Fixed-Effect Regressions on Network Data”.
Econometrica 87.5, pp. 1543–1560.
Kline, Patrick, Raffaele Saggio, and Mikkel Sølvsten (2019). Leave-out Estimation of Vari-
ance Components. NBER Working Paper No. 26244.
Lindenlaub, Ilse (2017). “Sorting Multidimensional Types: Theory and Application”. Review
of Economic Studies 84.2, pp. 718–789.
Lindenlaub, Ilse and Fabien Postel-Vinay (2017). “Multidimensional Sorting Under Random
Search”. mimeo.
43

===== PDF PAGE 45 =====

Lise, Jeremy, Costas Meghir, and Jean-Marc Robin (2016). “Matching, Sorting and Wages”.
Review of Economic Dynamics 19, pp. 63–87.
Ljungqvist, Lars and Thomas J. Sargent (1998). “The European Unemployment Dilemma”.
Journal of Political Economy 106.3, pp. 514–550.
Lopes de Melo, Rafael (2018). “Firm Wage Differentials and Labor Market Sorting: Recon-
ciling Theory and Evidence”. Journal of Political Economy 126.1, pp. 313–346.
Malmberg, Hannes and Ola Ho¨ssler (2014). “Probabilistic Choice with an Infinite Set of
Options: An Approach Based on Random Sup Measures”. Modern Problems in Insur-
ance Mathematics. Ed. by Dmitrii Silvestrov and Anders Martin-Lo¨f. Springer. Chap. 18,
pp. 291–312.
Pichelmann,KarlandMonikaRiedel(1992).“NewJobsorRecalls?”Empirica 19.2,pp.259–
274.
Postel-Vinay, Fabien and Jean-Marc Robin (2002). “Equilibrium Wage Dispersion with
Worker and Employer Heterogeneity”. Econometrica 70.6, pp. 2295–2350.
— (2006). “Microeconometric Search-Matching Models and Matched Employer-Employee
Data”. The Proceedings of the 9th World Congress of the Econometric Society, pp. 877–
907.
Shimer, Robert and Lones Smith (2000). “Assortative Matching and Search”. Econometrica
68.2, pp. 343–369.
Solomon, Lewis C. (1975). “The Definition of College Quality and Its Impact on Earnings”.
Explorations in Economic Research, volume 2, number 4. NBER, pp. 537–587.
Tiebout, Charles M. (1956). “A Pure Theory of Local Expenditures”. Journal of Political
Economy 64.5, pp. 416–424.
Zweimuller, Josef, Rudolf Winter-Ebmer, Rafael Lalive, Andreas Kuhn, Jean-Philipe Wuell-
rich, Oliver Ruf, and Simon Buchi (2009). Austrian Social Security Database. Mimeo.
44

===== PDF PAGE 46 =====

Appendix
A Details of Structural Models
A.1 A Statistical Model
We provide the proof of Proposition 1 omitted from the main text.
Proof of Proposition 1. First recall that one can obtain the best linear prediction of the
expected value of y conditional on x by running a least square regression of y on x,
c
E (y) = y¯+ AKM (x x¯),
x σ2 −
x
where x¯ and y¯ denote the expected values of x and y. Since by assumption the expectation
of x conditional on y is linear in y, this relationship is exact. We can then use the definition
of λ in equation (1) directly to write
(cid:18) (cid:19)
c c
λ = E w(x ,y) = x + E (y) = y¯ AKM x¯+ 1+ AKM x , (26)
i xi i i xi − σ2 σ2 i
x x
and so λ is an affine function of x . A symmetric argument establishes that E (x) =
i i y
x¯+ cAKM(y y¯) and
σ y 2 − (cid:18) (cid:19)
c c
AKM AKM
µ = x¯ y¯+ 1+ y . (27)
j − σ2 σ2 j
y y
This verifies that µ is an affine function of y .
j j
Next, assume that min σ2,σ2 > c . Equations (26) and (27) imply λ is an in-
{ x y} − AKM i
creasing function of x and µ is an increasing function of y . Therefore the correlation
i j j
between λ and µ is the same as the correlation between x and y, ρ = ρ . Moreover,
AKM
equations (26) and (27) imply that the standard deviations of λ and y are σ = σ +ρ σ
λ x AKM y
and σ = σ + ρ σ , both positive by the assumption at the start of this paragraph.
µ y AKM x
Using this and ρ = ρ gives us σ2 c = σ2(1 ρσ /σ ) = σ σ (1 ρ2 ) > 0, and
AKM λ − λ − µ λ x λ − AKM
symmetrically σ2 c = σ σ (1 ρ2 ) > 0. Hence min σ2,σ2 > c.
µ − y µ − AKM { λ µ}
Alternatively, suppose that σ2 > c > σ2. Then λ is an increasing function of x
x − AKM y i i
and µ is a decreasing function of y . Therefore ρ = ρ . Equations (26) and (27) imply
j j AKM
−
that the standard deviations of λ and µ are σ = σ +ρ σ and σ = (σ +ρ σ ).
λ x AKM y µ y AKM x
−
Using this and ρ = ρ gives us σ2 c = σ2(1 ρσ /σ ) = σ σ (1 ρ2 ) > 0 and
− AKM λ − λ − µ λ x λ − AKM
σ2 c = σ σ (1 ρ2 ) < 0. Hence min σ2,σ2 < c. The case with σ2 > c > σ2 is
µ− − y µ − AKM { λ µ} y − AKM x
analogous. It cannot be the case that c > max σ2,σ2 . Thus whenever min σ2,σ2 <
− AKM { x y} { x y}
45

===== PDF PAGE 47 =====

c , min σ2,σ2 < c.
− AKM { λ µ}
Finally, if σ2 +c = 0, equations (26) and (27) imply σ = 0. If σ2 +c = 0, then
x AKM λ y AKM
σ = 0. In these cases, the correlation between λ and µ is undefined.
µ
A.2 Two-Sided Search Model with Match-Specific Shocks
We formulate equations for the value functions U(x) and V(y) and steady state conditions
for u(x) and v(y). It will be useful to define the conditional expected value ω and survivor
function p as
(cid:82)
∞zdζ(z)
ω(k) = k if ζ(k) < 1, ω(k) = k otherwise
1 ζ(k)
−
p(k) = 1 ζ(k).
−
The value of being unemployed is then
(cid:90) (cid:18)(cid:90) (cid:19)
γ (cid:0) (cid:1) ˜
rU(x) = θ zH(x,y) rU(x) rV(y) dζ(z) v(y)dG(y)
r+δ − −
Y z z¯(x,y)
(cid:90) ≥
θγ (cid:0) (cid:1) ˜
= p(z¯(x,y)) ω(z¯(x,y))H(x,y) rU(x) rV(y) v(y)dG(y). (28)
r+δ − −
Y
Similarly, the value of a vacant firm is
(cid:90)
θ(1 γ) (cid:0) (cid:1) ˜
rV(y) = − p(z¯(x,y)) ω(z¯(x,y))H(x,y) rU(x) rV(y) u(x)dF(x). (29)
r+δ − −
X
Finally, the steady state conditions for unemployment and vacancy rates are
(cid:90)
˜
δ(1 u(x)) = θu(x) p(z¯(x,y))v(y)dG(y), (30)
−
Y
(cid:90)
˜
δ(1 v(y)) = θv(y) p(z¯(x,y))u(x)dF(x). (31)
−
X
Using this, we can find the conditional distribution of jobs for each worker:
˜
p(z¯(x,y))v(y)dG(y)
Φ (y) = . (32)
x (cid:82) ˜
p(z¯(x,y ))v(y )dG(y )
Y (cid:48) (cid:48) (cid:48)
The log wage in an (x,y) match with productivity shock z is
(cid:0) (cid:0) (cid:1) (cid:1)
w(x,y,z) = log γ zH(x,y) rU(x) rV(y) +rU(x) , (33)
− −
46

===== PDF PAGE 48 =====

and hence its expectation is
(cid:90)
we(x,y) Ew(x,y,z) = w(x,y,z)dζ(z)/p(z¯(x,y)). (34)
≡
z z¯(x,y)
≥
This is enough information to compute ρ and ρ from the model.
AKM
Finally, note that if ζ has an exponential distribution, the expected log wage is
(cid:90)
we(x,y) = eγs r H U ( ( x x , ) y) ∞ 1 dt+log(rU(x)),
rU(x)
tet
γsH(x,y)
which is increasing in H(x,y). Thus if the production technology is monotonic in y, the
expected log wage is also monotonic in y for fixed x.29
A.3 Discrete Choice Model
We have closed-form formulas for all objects of interest when the distributions of worker and
firm characteristics are normal, x N(m ,σ2) and y N(m ,σ2). In the interest of space,
∼ x x ∼ y y
we show formulae for the standard normal case, m = m = 0 and σ = σ = 1.
x y x y
Theorem 18.4 in Malmberg and H¨ossler (2014) implies that the distribution of firm types
y conditional on worker’s type x is
(cid:16) (cid:17)
exp w(x,y) dG ˜ (y)
s
Φ (y) = . (35)
x (cid:82)
∞ exp
(cid:16) w(x,y(cid:48)) (cid:17)
dG
˜
(y )
s (cid:48)
−∞
Undertheassumptionthaty hasastandardnormaldistributionandw(x,y) = x (x y)2/a,
− −
we get that Φ (y) is also normal with mean 2x and variance as . The distribution of x
x 2+as 2+as
and the distribution of y conditional on x allow us to compute the joint distribution of x
and y. Importantly, the correlation is 2 .
√4+2as+a2s2
Next, understanding the wage and the joint distribution of x and y, we can compute the
types from equations (1) and (2):
as2x2 s
λ(x) = +x , (36)
−(2+as)2 − 2+as
a3s4y2 2(2+as)y s(2+as)
µ(y) = + , (37)
−(4+2as+a2s2)2 4+2as+a2s2 − 4+2as+a2s2
29The same is true for the expected wage.
47

===== PDF PAGE 49 =====

as well as the AKM fixed effects from equations (8) and (9):
s(4+a2s2)x2
α(x) = +x+α , (38)
−(2+as)(8+2as+a2s2) 0
s(2 as)y2 4s
ψ(y) = − α . (39)
−8+2as+a2s2 − 8+2as+a2s2 − 0
Note that λ, µ, and α are all concave quadratic functions of the characteristic, while ψ is a
concave quadratic if as < 2, a convex quadratic if as > 2, and a constant if as = 2.
In the last step, we can use the covariance matrix of x and y as well as these functional
forms to find the covariance matrix of λ and µ as well as α and ψ. The exact formulae are
messy even in the standard normal case and so we omit them.
B Properties of Estimator
B.1 Consistency Proofs
Proof of Proposition 2. Take worker i with characteristics x :
i
E (cid:80)Mi tw ww E (cid:80)Mi tw εw
λ(x ) = xi m=1 i,m i,m = w¯w + x m=1 i,m i,m = w¯w.
i T ¯w xi E Tw xi
x xi i
The first equation is the definition of λ as the expected daily log earnings, equation (14).
The second uses the auxiliary assumption that ww = w¯w+εw . The third uses the auxiliary
i,m xi i,m
assumption that the expected value of tw εw is zero. The proof for firms is identical.
i,m i,m
Proof of Proposition 3. We start by proving that 1 (cid:80)τI Twλ ˆ is a consistent estimator
τI i=1 i i
of 1 (cid:80) I T ¯wλ(x), i.e. the product of worker type and time spent matched. We do this in
I x X x x
∈
two steps. First, for any given worker i with characteristic x ,
i
Tw
(cid:80)Mi
ww
(cid:80)Mi (cid:80)Mi
tw εw
Twλ ˆ = i m=1 i,m = Tww¯w + m=1 m(cid:48)=1 i,m(cid:48) i,m = Twλ(x )+υ
i i M i xi M i i 1,i
i i
where υ 1 (cid:80)Mi (cid:80)Mi tw εw . The first equation uses the definition of λ ˆ from
1,i ≡ Mi m=1 m(cid:48)=1 i,m(cid:48) i,m i
equation (18). The second uses the auxiliary assumption that ww = w¯w + εw and also
i,m xi i,m
writes Tw =
(cid:80)Mi
tw . The third uses λ(x ) = w¯w (Proposition 2) and defines the error
i m(cid:48)=1 i,m(cid:48) i xi
term υ . Since tw and εw are independent for all m and m and ε has mean zero,
1,i i,m i,m(cid:48) (cid:48) i,m(cid:48)
υ also has mean zero for each i. It also has a finite characteristic-dependent variance, say
1,i
σ2 < , since σw is finite and durations are bounded.
υ1,xi ∞ xi
48

===== PDF PAGE 50 =====

Summing these up implies that the expected value of 1 (cid:80)τI Twλ ˆ is 1 (cid:80) I T ¯wλ(x).
τI i=1 i i I x X x x
∈
Next, the fourth auxiliary assumption implies that the error terms υ are independent.
1,i
Thus the variance of 1 (cid:80)τI Twλ ˆ is 1 (cid:80) I σ2 . This converges to zero when τ goes
τI i=1 i i τI2 x X x υ,x
∈
to infinity and so consistency follows from Chebyshev’s inequality, a law of large numbers.
A similar argument implies that 1 (cid:80)τI Tw is a consistent estimator of 1 (cid:80) I T ¯w
τI i=1 i I x X x x
since Tw is an unbiased estimator of T ¯w with a finite variance and durations are inde ∈ pendent
i x
across workers conditional on type. Since the ratio of two consistent estimators is consistent,
it follows that wˆ¯ = (cid:80)τ i= I 1 T i wλˆ i is a consistent estimator of w¯ = (cid:80) x∈X IxT¯ x wλ(x) .
(cid:80)τ i= I 1 T i w (cid:80) x∈X IxT¯ x w
Turn next to the second moment. As above, for worker i with characteristic x ,
i
Tw
(cid:80)Mi (cid:80)
ww ww
Twλ(cid:98)2 = i m=1 m(cid:48) (cid:54) =m i,m i,m(cid:48)
i i M (M 1)
i i
−
2w¯w
(cid:80)Mi (cid:80)Mi
tw εw
(cid:80)Mi (cid:80) (cid:80)Mi
tw εw εw
= Tw(w¯w)2 + xi m=1 m(cid:48)=1 i,m(cid:48) i,m + m=1 m(cid:48) (cid:54) =m m(cid:48)(cid:48)=1 i,m(cid:48)(cid:48) i,m i,m(cid:48)
i xi M M (M 1)
i i i
−
= Twλ(x )2 +υ
i i 2,i
where υ is the sum of the last two terms on the previous line. The logic is very similar to
2,i
the first moment. The first equation uses the definition of λ(cid:98)2 in equation (18), the second
i
uses the auxiliary assumption that ww = w¯w +εw and also writes Tw =
(cid:80)Mi
tw . The
i,m xi i,m i m(cid:48)=1 i,m(cid:48)
third uses λ(x ) = w¯w and defines another error term for each worker. For each worker, the
i xi
expected value of υ is zero because of the same assumptions as for the first moment, as well
2,i
as the assumption that εw and εw are independent for m = m. Moreover, the variance
i,m i,m(cid:48) (cid:54) (cid:48)
of the error term is characteristic dependent but finite, σ2 < , since σw is finite and
υ2,xi ∞ xi
durations are bounded.
We can then sum up these objects, getting that the expected value of 1
(cid:80)τI
Twλ(cid:98)2 is
τI i=1 i i
1 (cid:80) I T ¯wλ(x)2. Consistency again follows from the fourth auxiliary assumption, since
I x X x x
∈
thisensuresthattheerrortermsυ areindependentacrossworkers. Again, sincetheratioof
2,i
two consistent estimators is consistent, (cid:80)τ i= I 1 T i wλ(cid:99)2 i is a consistent estimator of (cid:80) x∈X IxT¯ x wλ(x)2 ,
(cid:80)τ i= I 1 T i w (cid:80) x∈X IxT¯ x w
the second moment of λ.
Finally, the difference between a consistent estimator of the second moment and the
square of a consistent estimator of the first moment is a consistent estimator of the variance
σ2, defined in equation (16).
λ
Proof of Proposition 5. We start by expanding the definition (23) of cˆ using ww =
i,m i,m(cid:48)
49

===== PDF PAGE 51 =====

w¯w +εw and wf = w¯f +εf with j = j :
xi i,m(cid:48) j,n(cid:48) yj j,n(cid:48) i,m
(cid:80) εw (cid:80) εf (cid:80) εw (cid:80) εf
cˆ i,m = w¯ x w i w¯ y f i,m +w¯ y f i,m m M (cid:48) (cid:54) =m 1 i,m(cid:48) +w¯ x w i n N (cid:48) (cid:54) =ni,m ji 1 ,m,n(cid:48) + m M (cid:48) (cid:54) =m 1 i,m(cid:48) n N (cid:48) (cid:54) =ni,m ji 1 ,m,n(cid:48) .
i
−
ji,m
−
i
−
ji,m
−
Now compute the average of this across all matches:
τ 1 I (cid:88) τI (cid:88) Mi tw i,m cˆ i,m = τ 1 I (cid:88) τI (cid:32) w¯ x w i (cid:88) Mi tw i,m w¯ y f i,m + (cid:88) Mi tw i,m w¯ y f i,m (cid:80) m M (cid:48) (cid:54) =m ε 1 w i,m(cid:48)
i
i=1 m=1 i=1 m=1 m=1 −
+ (cid:88)
Mi
tw w¯w
(cid:80)
n(cid:48) (cid:54) =ni,m
εf
ji,m,n(cid:48) + (cid:88)
Mi
tw
(cid:80)
m(cid:48) (cid:54) =m
εw
i,m(cid:48)
(cid:80)
n(cid:48) (cid:54) =ni,m
εf
ji,m,n(cid:48)
(cid:33)
i,m xi N 1 i,m M 1 N 1
m=1
ji,m
− m=1
i
−
ji,m
−
(cid:32) (cid:80)
= 1 (cid:88) τI w¯w (cid:88) Mi tw w¯f + (cid:88) τI (cid:88) Mi εw m(cid:48) (cid:54) =m tw i,m(cid:48) w¯ y f i,m(cid:48)
τI xi i,m yi,m i,m M 1
i
i=1 m=1 i=1 m=1 −
+ (cid:88)
τJ
(cid:88)
Nj
εf
(cid:80)
n(cid:48) (cid:54) =ni,m
tf
j,n(cid:48)
w¯
x
w
j,n(cid:48) + (cid:88)
τI
(cid:88)
Mi
tw
(cid:80)
m(cid:48) (cid:54) =m
εw
i,m(cid:48)
(cid:80)
n(cid:48) (cid:54) =ni,m
εf
j,n(cid:48)
(cid:33)
j,n N 1 i,m M 1 N 1
j=1 n=1
j
− i=1 m=1
i
−
ji,m
−
The first equation uses the definition above of cˆ , while the second regroups terms. In par-
i,m
ticular, inthesecondterm, weswitchtheorderofsummation, whileinthethirdtermwefirst
view objects from the perspective of the firm and then switch the order of the summations.
The first three auxiliary assumptions imply that the last three terms all have zero expected
value and so the expected value of this expression is 1 (cid:80) I E (cid:80)Mi tw λ(x)µ(y ).
I x X x x i=1 i,m i,m
∈
To compute the variance of the estimator, we leverage the fourth auxiliary assumption,
which implies that when we square the last three terms, the only parts with a non-zero
expected value are the direct squares within each term and within each worker or firm. That
is, the variance of 1
(cid:80)τI (cid:80)Mi
tw cˆ is
τI i=1 m=1 i,m i,m
  
τ 1 I2  (cid:88) I x E x  (cid:32) (cid:88) Mi εw i,m (cid:80) m(cid:48) (cid:54) = M m tw i,m 1 (cid:48) w¯ y f i,m(cid:48) (cid:33)2 + (cid:32) (cid:88) Mi tw i,m (cid:80) m M (cid:48) (cid:54) =m ε 1 w i,m(cid:48) (cid:80) N n(cid:48) (cid:54) =ni,m ε 1 f j,n(cid:48) (cid:33)2 
x X m=1
i
− m=1
i
−
ji,m
−
∈

Nj (cid:80) tf w¯w
2
+ (cid:88) J E  (cid:88) εf n(cid:48) (cid:54) =ni,m j,n(cid:48) x j,n(cid:48)  
y y j,n N 1
j
y Y n=1 −
∈
This is inversely proportional to τ and so the variance of the estimator converges to zero
when τ goes to infinity, i.e. the estimator is consistent.
Tofinishtheproof,weusethefactthat 1 (cid:80)τI Tw isaconsistentestimatorof 1 (cid:80) I T ¯w
τI i=1 i I x X x x
(see the proof of Proposition 3) and take ratios to prove that
(cid:80)τ
i=
I
1
(cid:80)M
m=
i
1
tw
i,m
cˆi,m
is a c
∈
onsis-
(cid:80)τI Tw
i=1 i
50

===== PDF PAGE 52 =====

tent estimator of (cid:80) x∈X Ix E x (cid:80)M m= i 1 tw i,m λ(x)µ(yi,m) . Finally, we have already shown in the proof of
(cid:80)
x∈X
IxT¯
x
w
Proposition 3 that (cid:80)τ i= I 1 T i wλˆ i is a consistent estimator of w¯, the common mean of λ and µ.
(cid:80)τI Tw
i=1 i
The difference between a consistent estimator of (cid:80) x∈X Ix E x (cid:80)M m= i 1 tw i,m λ(x)µ(yi,m) and the square
(cid:80)
x∈X
IxT¯
x
w
of a consistent estimator of w¯ is a consistent estimator of the covariance.
B.2 Construction of Artificial Data
We generate artificial data sets from two structural models, the two-sided search model with
match-specific shocks and the discrete choice model.
In the search model, we proceed as follows. For given parameter values, we solve for the
steady state of the economy with a continuum of workers and firms and compute the steady
state decision rules, value functions, and unemployment and vacancy rates for each worker
and firm characteristic x and y. This determines λ(x) and µ(y) for all x and y.30 To create
the sample, we choose the number of workers and firms, I and J, and assign each worker
and firm its characteristic x and y according to the distributions F ˜ (x) and G ˜ (y).31
Westartthesearcheconomywithsomeworkersemployedandsomeunemployed, respect-
ing their characteristic-specific unemployment rates u(x). For a worker i with type x we
i
construct an employment history, consisting of alternating spells of employment and unem-
ployment. An unemployment spell is characterized only by its duration, which we determine
(cid:0) (cid:82) ˜ (cid:1)
by a draw from an exponential distribution with parameter 1/ θ p(z¯(x,y))v(y)dG(y) , the
Y
reciprocal of the job finding rate of worker i. An employment spell is characterized by four
objects: the firm’s characteristic y, its identity j, the log wage w, and the match duration τ.
We draw the firm’s characteristic y from the equilibrium distribution of matches conditional
on the worker type Φ (y), equation (32). Next, we draw the firm’s identity at random from
xi
the set of firms with that characteristic y. We then draw the match-specific shock z from the
distribution dζ(z) conditional on z z¯(x ,y), which guarantees that a worker with x and a
i i
≥
firm with y indeed want to form a match. Finally, we construct the log wage w(x ,y,z) us-
i
ing equation (33). The duration of the match is determined by a draw from the exponential
¯
distribution with parameter 1/δ. We assume that we observe each worker for T periods and
keep creating spells of employment and unemployment until the sum of all spell durations
30We use λ and µ from an economy with a continuum of workers and firms. This is because we do not
know how to solve a two-sided matching model with a finite number of workers and firms. In particular, the
state variable in the finite econmy is the distribution of all matches and the finite economy does not have a
steady state.
31We choose I and J to be multiples of 500, which is the number of characteristics in our numerical
solution of the model. We assign equal number of firms and workers to each characteristic. Thus, we do not
have randomness at this stage.
51

===== PDF PAGE 53 =====

¯ ¯
reaches T. We choose T such that the median worker holds 4.9 jobs. If a worker has multiple
jobs with the same firm, we keep one at random. We drop all workers and firms with only
one observation.
We proceed similarly in the discrete choice model. For given parameter values, we first
compute λ(x) and µ(y) under the assumption that there is a continuum of workers and
firms. That is, we use a generalization of equation (36) which relaxes the assumptions that
m = m = 0 and σ = σ = 1. To create the sample, we choose the number of workers and
x y x y
˜
firms, I and J, and draw characteristics for each from the distributions F(x) and G(y). For
worker i with characteristic x , we draw the number of jobs M using the actual distribution
i i
of jobs per worker, corresponding to column (3) for men in Table 2. For each job, we assume
that the matching probabilities solve a version of equation (35).32 In the last step, we assign
each match the log wage w(x ,y ) and a duration of 1 period. Again, if a worker has multiple
i j
jobs with the same firm, we keep one at random. We drop all workers and firms with only
one observation.
B.3 Monte Carlo Confidence Intervals
We construct B data samples for each model and set of parameters. For each sample
b 1,...,B , we first use the types λ and µ and the match durations and matching
∈ { }
network realized in sample b to recover the variance-covariance matrix (equations 16 and 17)
and hence the true correlation ρ for that sample. Alternatively, we use log wages, match
b
durations and the matching network in sample b to find the variance-covariance matrix using
formulae (20), (22), and (24), and hence recover the feasible estimate ρˆ . Let e = ρˆ ρ
b b b b
−
be the estimation error in sample b. We find values e and e¯ such that
P(e e) = 0.025 and P(e > e¯) = 0.025.
b b
≤
The 95 percent confidence interval for ρ is [ρ + e,ρ + e¯], where ρ is the correlation in an
infinite sample. Note that the interval does not have to be centered.
In addition to the numerical results in Table 1, here we show results with other parameter
values. Throughout we assume there are I = 10,000 workers and J = 2,000 firms, although
the number of workers and firms in the final sample is lower because we only keep workers
and firms with at least two observations. This is a rather conservative choice of the sample
size, orders of magnitude lower than a typical real-world data. Figure 4 shows the confidence
32In contrast to the search model, we can solve the discrete choice model with a finite number of workers
and firms. There is no analytical solution for the matching probabilities, but we can find them using Monte
Carlo. In practice, this makes little quantitative difference for our results. For example, the correlation
between the continuous version of λ and its finite counterpart typically exceeds 0.999.
52

===== PDF PAGE 54 =====

intervals in the search model with match-specific productivity shocks. We see that intervals
are very tight across the entire range of parameter values we consider. The only exception is
the case when sorting between x and y characteristics in the model changes from positive to
negative (ξ is close to 2.8). In this case, all firms pay similar wages and hence the variance
of firm types is very small, σ2/(σ2 +σ2) 10 3. In some bootstrap samples, the estimate
µ λ µ ≈ −
of the variance of firm types and the covariance are both negative and hence we record a
correlation of ρˆ = 1.
b
−
Figure 5 shows the confidence intervals in the discrete choice model. The confidence
intervals are again very tight in most cases. The exception is the bottom left panel when the
difference in means m m exceeds 1.5. The reason is a combination of a smaller sample
x y
−
size and selection of firms. Even though we start off simulations with I = 10,000 workers
and J = 2,000 firms, the types of workers and firms are so different that many firms end
up with zero or one worker, and many workers hold all their jobs at the same firm. To
satisfy the sample restrictions for our estimator, we drop these firms and workers from the
sample and as a result, we end up with a smaller sample. Moreover, firms which remain in
the sample tend to be those with high value of y, hence they are selected and do not reflect
properly the distribution of jobs.
C Alternative Identifying Assumptions and Estimator
One of our identifying assumptions states that, conditional on characteristics, the error in
the wage equation and the duration of the match are independent. Several structural models
of sorting would suggest that this assumption is violated since jobs which pay higher wages
tend to last longer. We can relax this assumption but only if we impose an additional
assumption that the average duration of the match t¯w is independent of worker’s type λ(x),
x
and symmetrically, average duration of a job t¯f is independent of firm’s type µ(y). This
y
means that higher-wage jobs can last longer but on average the expected duration of a
job does not depend on worker’s type. We construct a consistent estimator under these
assumptions and report results in Table 6. We note that the assumption that type and
average duration are independent cannot be tested.
We first introduce auxiliary assumptions and then propose an estimator. The assump-
tions are similar to those in Section 4.2 but are modified to reflect the changes discussed
above. It will be useful to introduce the following notation: let t¯w and t¯w,2 denote the first
x x
and second moment of match duration of a worker with characteristic x, and symmetrically,
t¯f and t¯f,2 the first and second moment of match duration for a firm with characteristic y.
y y
1. For worker i with characteristic x , ww = w¯w + εw and εw is independently and
(cid:48) i i,m xi i,m i,m
53

===== PDF PAGE 55 =====

1
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0
102 104 106 108
θ
noitalerroc
Meeting Rate
1
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0
0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1
γ
noitalerroc
Bargaining Power
1
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0
10 4 10 3 10 2 10 1 100
− − − −
σ2
z
noitalerroc
Variance of Match Productivity
1
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0
0.2
− 10 1 100 101
−
ξ
ρ 95% CI
noitalerroc
Elasticity of Substitution
Figure 4: Confidence intervals in the two-sided search model with match-specific shocks.
We plot the correlation ρ (blue line) and the bootstrapped confidence intervals (dashed red
lines). Ineachpanel, wekeepallbutoneparameterattheirbenchmarkvalues, r = 1, δ = 10,
θ = 104, γ = 0.5, a = 0.5, ξ = 1, σ2 = 0.1, z = 1, n = 500, and depict on the horizontal axis
z
which parameter we are changing. For the given set of parameter values, we create B = 100
artificial samples starting with I = 10,000 workers and J = 2,000 firms. We drop all workers
and firms with only one observation. In each sample we compute the estimation error as the
difference between the estimated correlation and the sample correlation, and use the 2.5%
and 97.5% quartile of the error distribution to construct the 5%-confidence interval.
54

===== PDF PAGE 56 =====

1
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0
0 2 4 6 8 10
s
noitalerroc
Standard Deviation of Amenity
1
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0
0 2 4 6 8 10
a
noitalerroc
Wage Loss
1
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0
2 1 0 1 2
− −
m m x y
−
noitalerroc
Differences in Means
1
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0
0 1 2 3 4 5
σ y
ρ 95% CI
noitalerroc
Standard Deviation of Firm Types
Figure 5: Confidence intervals in the discrete choice model. We plot the correlation ρ in an
infinite sample (blue line) and the bootstrapped confidence intervals. In each panel, we keep
all but one parameter at their benchmark values, a = 1, s = 1, m = 0, m = 0, σ = 1, and
x y x
σ = 1, and depict on the horizontal axis which parameter we are changing. For the given set
y
of parameter values, we create B = 100 artificial samples starting with I = 10,000 workers
and J = 2,000 firms. We drop all workers and firms with only one observation. In each
sample we compute the estimation error as the difference between the estimated correlation
and the sample correlation, and use the 2.5% and 97.5% quartile of the error distribution to
construct the 5%-confidence interval.
55

===== PDF PAGE 57 =====

identicallydistributedacrossm = 1,...,M withafinitestandarddeviationσw. Ad-
{ i } xi
ditionally, t¯w and t¯w,2 are finite and independent of w¯w. Moreover, tw is independent
xi xi xi i,m
of εw and tw for all m = m, but tw and εw can be correlated.
i,m(cid:48) i,m(cid:48) (cid:54) (cid:48) i,m i,m
2. For firm j with characteristic y , wf = w¯f + εf and εf is independently and
(cid:48) j j,n yj j,n j,n
identically distributed across n = 1,...,N with a finite standard deviation σf . Ad-
{ j } yj
ditionally, t¯f and t¯f,2 are finite and independent of w¯f . Moreover, tf is independent
yj yj yj j,n
of εf and tf for all n = n, but tf and εf can be correlated.
j,n(cid:48) j,n(cid:48) (cid:54) (cid:48) j,n j,n
3. For any worker i with characteristic x and all m 1,...,M , w¯w and εw are
(cid:48) i ∈ { i } xi i,m(cid:48)
independent of εf for all m = m and all n = n . Moreover, for any firm j with
ji,m,n(cid:48) (cid:48)
(cid:54)
(cid:48)
(cid:54)
i,m
characteristic y and all n 1,...,N , w¯f is independent of εw for all m = m .
j ∈ { j } yj ij,n,m(cid:48) (cid:48) (cid:54) j,n
4. For all i = i, m, and m, εw and εw are independent, as are tw and tw . For all
(cid:48) (cid:54) (cid:48) (cid:48) i,m i(cid:48),m(cid:48) i,m i(cid:48),m(cid:48)
j = j , n, and n, εf and εf are independent, as are tf and tf
(cid:54) (cid:48) (cid:48) j,n j,n(cid:48) j,n j,n(cid:48)
The first set of assumptions has been modified to relax the assumption that εw and
i,m
tw are independent, but we introduce a new assumption that first two moments of match
i,m
duration are independent of worker’s mean wage. The second set of assumptions introduces
a symmetric change on the firm’s side. The third and fourth set of assumptions remain
unchanged.
Notethatwedonotassumethatεw andεf havemeanzero. Aconvenientnormalization
i,m j,n
is to impose that E (εw tw ) = E (εf tf ) = 0, leaving the mean of the error terms to
xi i,m i,m yj j,n j,n
pick up the correlation between duration and wages. With this normalization, a worker with
characteristic x has type λ(x) = w¯w, and a firm with characteristic y has type µ(y) = w¯f.
x y
However, since errors in the wage equation εw and εf are not mean zero, λ ˆ , µˆ are no
i,m j,n i j
longer unbiased estimators of λ(x ) and µ(y ). We therefore proceed differently, and define
i j
the following estimators:
1 (cid:88)
Mi
(cid:92) 1 (cid:88)
Mi
(cid:88)
t¯(cid:100)wλ tw ww , t¯w,2λ2 (tw ww )(tw ww ),
i i ≡ M i,m i,m i i ≡ M (M 1) i,m i,m i,m(cid:48) i,m(cid:48)
i i i
m=1 − m=1m(cid:48)=m
(cid:54)
1 (cid:88)
Mi
1 (cid:88)
Mi
(cid:88)
t¯(cid:98)w tw , t¯(cid:100)w,2 tw tw , (40)
i ≡ M i,m i ≡ M (M 1) i,m i,m(cid:48)
i i i
m=1 − m=1m(cid:48)=m
(cid:54)
56

===== PDF PAGE 58 =====

and similarly for firms,
1 (cid:88)
Nj
(cid:91) 1 (cid:88)
Nj
(cid:88)
t¯(cid:100)fµ tf wf , t¯f,2µ2 (tf wf )(tf wf ),
j j ≡ N j,n j,n j j ≡ N (N 1) j,n j,n j,n(cid:48) j,n(cid:48)
j j j
n=1 − n=1n(cid:48)=n
(cid:54)
1 (cid:88)
Nj
1 (cid:88)
Nj
(cid:88)
t¯(cid:98)f tf , t¯(cid:99)f,2 tf tf . (41)
j ≡ N j,n j ≡ N (N 1) j,n j,n(cid:48)
j j j
n=1 − n=1n(cid:48)=n
(cid:54)
It is straightforward to show that under auxiliary assumptions 1 and 2, these are unbiased
(cid:48) (cid:48)
estimators of the corresponding moments:
E t¯(cid:100)wλ = t¯ww¯w E t¯(cid:98)w = t¯w
xi i i xi xi xi i xi
E t¯ (cid:92) w,2λ2 = t¯w,2 (cid:0) w¯w (cid:1)2 E t¯(cid:100)w,2 = t¯w,2.
xi i i xi xi xi i xi
A symmetric argument holds on the firm side.
We use cross-sectional averages of the above estimators to estimate the variance of worker
types, weighted again by workers’ total employment duration Tw:
i
alt
(cid:80)τI Twt¯
(cid:92)
w,2λ2
(cid:32)
(cid:80)τI Twt¯(cid:100)wλ
(cid:33)2
σ(cid:99)2 = i=1 i i i i=1 i i i . (42)
λ (cid:80)τI Twt¯(cid:100)w,2 − (cid:80)τI Twt¯(cid:98)w
i=1 i i i=1 i i
The assumption that w¯w and t¯w are independent, as are t¯w,2 and
(cid:0)
w¯w
(cid:1)2
, is important here.
xi xi xi xi
alt
If it is violated, then σ(cid:99)2 is inconsistent due to omitted covariance terms cov(t¯w,ww) and
λ xi xi
cov(t¯w,2,(ww)2). Symmetrically, an estimator of the variance of firm types is
xi xi
(cid:91)  2
(cid:80)τJ Tft¯f,2µ2 (cid:80)τJ Tft¯(cid:100)fµ
σ(cid:99)2 alt = j=1 j j j  j=1 j j j  . (43)
µ (cid:80)τJ Tft¯(cid:99)f,2 − (cid:80)τJ Tft¯(cid:98)f
j=1 j j j=1 j j
Finally, an estimator of the product of the firm and worker type is
(cid:80) tw ww (cid:80) tf wf
t
(cid:92)
i,m c i,m
m(cid:48)
(cid:54)
=m i,m(cid:48) i,m(cid:48) n(cid:48)
(cid:54)
=ni,m ji,m,n(cid:48) ji,m,n(cid:48)
,
≡ M 1 N 1
i
−
ji,m,n(cid:48)
−
(cid:80) tw (cid:80) tf
t(cid:100)i,m
m(cid:48)
(cid:54)
=m i,m(cid:48) n(cid:48)
(cid:54)
=ni,m ji,m,n(cid:48)
, (44)
≡ M 1 N 1
i
−
ji,m,n(cid:48)
−
57

===== PDF PAGE 59 =====

and its cross-sectional mean is the estimator of the covariance,
 
(cid:98) calt ≡
(cid:80)
(cid:80)
τ
i=
I
τ i 1 = I
(cid:80)
1 (cid:80)
M
m=
i
M m 1 = i
t
1
w
i, t m w i,
t
m
(cid:92)
i, t(cid:100) m i,
c
m i,m −
(cid:32) (cid:80)
(cid:80)
τ
i=
I
τ i= 1 I 1
T
T i
w
i w
t¯(cid:100)w
i t¯(cid:98)w i
λ
i
(cid:33)

(cid:80)
(cid:80)
τ
j=
J
τ j= J 1 1
T
T j
f
j
t¯
f
(cid:100)f
j t¯(cid:98)
µ
f j j . (45)
alt alt
It follows that, under assumptions 1–4, the estimators σ(cid:99)2 ,σ(cid:99)2 ,calt are consistent estima-
(cid:48) (cid:48) λ µ (cid:98)
tors of σ2,σ2,c as τ . Thus,
λ µ → ∞
calt
ρalt = (cid:98) . (46)
(cid:98) (cid:113)
alt alt
σ(cid:99)2 σ(cid:99)2
λ µ
is a consistent estimator of ρ. The proof is analogous to the proof in Appendix B.1 and so
we omit it.
Table 6 shows results using alternative estimators. To compute these, we use formulas
(42), (43), (45) and (46) where we set τ = 1. We see that results are remarkably similarly to
those reported in Table 2 for all six columns; the maximum absolute difference between the
estimated correlations reported in these two tables is 0.066 for men and 0.053 for women.
D Impact of Top-Coding on Estimated Correlation
We study the impact of top-coding on our estimates by varying the share of top-coded wages
in the data set. We start from the wage cap in the data and then gradually decrease it by as
much as fifty percent. We then censor wages at the new wage cap. Reducing the wage cap
by fifty percent raises the share of top-coded observations from 4.7 percent to 46.5 percent
for men and from 2.1 to 21.5 percent for women.
In Figure 6 we show the results, plotting the estimated correlation ρˆ for data sets with
different top-coding on the vertical axis and the share of top-coded observations on the
horizontal axis. For men, the estimated correlation varies very mildly, staying around 0.476
even when almost half of observations are top-coded. Top-coding matters more for women.
A tighter wage cap reduces the correlation from 0.423 to 0.385 when more 20 percent of
women have a top coded observation.
Our intuition is that the impact of top-coding on the estimated correlation depends on
the correlation in the group affected by top-coding relative to the correlation among the
rest. If the correlation is similar to the rest of the sample, then top-coding does not have
a significant impact. However, if the correlation in the top-coded group is stronger, the
correlation decreases after top-coding the data. It is useful to think about the components
58

===== PDF PAGE 60 =====

Estimated Correlation and Variances Using Alternative Estimator
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6)
Men
correlation of matched types ρˆ 0.680 0.583 0.407 0.434 0.400 0.415
covariance of matched types cˆ 0.063 0.037 0.019 0.021 0.023 0.025
variance of worker types σ(cid:99)2 0.104 0.063 0.039 0.043 0.050 0.054
λ
variance of job types σ(cid:99)2 0.081 0.065 0.054 0.053 0.066 0.067
µ
number of workers (thousands) 3,884 2,916 1,646 971 971 970
number of firms (thousands) 705 532 343 272 273 276
number of observations (thousands) 64,359 16,401 7,211 4,883 4,881 4,880
share of observations top-coded 0.112 0.074 0.047 0.020 0.009 0.012
Women
correlation of matched types ρˆ 0.630 0.493 0.411 0.471 0.397 0.421
covariance of matched types cˆ 0.101 0.059 0.033 0.040 0.031 0.036
variance of worker types σ(cid:99)2 0.190 0.131 0.070 0.077 0.067 0.077
λ
variance of job types σ(cid:99)2 0.136 0.111 0.091 0.092 0.091 0.094
µ
number of workers (thousands) 3,340 2,532 1,494 937 798 797
number of firms (thousands) 758 530 345 303 248 250
number of observations (thousands) 52,128 12,451 5,582 4,435 3,294 3,291
share of observations top-coded 0.035 0.031 0.021 0.015 0.004 0.005
independence assumption I II III IV IV IV
observations included all all longest longest first last
Table 6: Estimates of correlations, covariances, and variances between matched workers’ and
firms’ types using AMDB 1986–2018, using alternative estimator. The data construction is
identical to Table 2. See the notes to that table for details.
59

===== PDF PAGE 61 =====

0.480
0.478
0.476
0.474
0.472
0.470
0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5
share of top-coded observations
ˆρ
noitalerroc
Men Women
0.42
0.40
0.38
0.05 0.10 0.15 0.20
share of top-coded observations
Figure 6: Impact of top-coding on the estimated correlation for men and women. Each dot
corresponds to a sample where we decrease the top-code by 0,2,4,...50 percent every year
and truncate all wages at this new top-code. The sample of workers and firms is chosen
according to independence assumption III, so the numbers are comparable to column (3)
of Table 2. We plot the results as a function of the share of top-coded observations in the
sample. An observation is considered top-coded if at least one wage observation of the job
is top-coded.
of the correlation separately since top-coding affects the covariance as well as variances. As
stricter top-coding makes wages more similar, the variance of the worker and firm types
declines. The covariance can increase or decrease, as suggested earlier. We find that the
covariance (not plotted) decreases with top coding from an initial 0.027 to 0.010 for men
and from 0.031 to 0.018 for women when the top code is 50 percent of the top coded wage in
Austria. Thissuggeststhatthecovarianceislargeramonghigh-wageworkers. Thedeclinein
covarianceisalmostexactlyoffsetbythedeclineinthevariancesandtheresultingcorrelation
for men is barely affected. For women, the decline in covariance is stronger and hence the
correlation drops modestly.
E Construction of Correlated Matching Networks
This section explains how to construct a data set that approximates a number of desired
targets: the correlation between matched worker and firm types ρ, the standard deviation
of worker and firm types σ and σ , the standard deviation of log wages σ, the number of
λ µ
workers and firms I and J, the distribution of the number of matches per worker M and
i
per firm N , and the distribution of match durations.
j
60

===== PDF PAGE 62 =====

1. We set the number of workers equal to the targets I and J.
2. For each worker i 1,...,I we draw M and tw ,...tw , the number firms a worker
∈ { } i i,1 i,Mi
works for and durations of each of his matches directly from the data. For each
j 1,...,J , we draw the number of employees N . We use the distribution of N
j j
∈ { }
(cid:80) (cid:80)
from the data. The model imposes the restriction that M = N . We add
i i j j
(cid:80) (cid:80) (cid:80) (cid:80)
workers (if M < N ) or firms (if M > N ) until we achieve balance. We
i i j j i i j j
˜ ˜
end up with I I workers and J J firms.
≥ ≥
3. For each worker i, we choose a random λ from a normal distribution with mean 0 and
i
standard deviation σ .
λ
4. For each firm j, we choose a random µ from a normal distribution with mean 0 and
j
standard deviation σ . We order the firms so that µ < µ < < µ .
µ 1 2 J
···
5. For each worker i, we choose M values χ distributed normally with mean λ ρσ /σ
i i,m i µ λ
and variance σ2(1 ρ2). We order these values across all i and m. The N lowest
µ − 1
values are assigned to firm 1. The next N values are assigned to firm 2, etc. This
2
gives us our matched pairs. We do not use the χ after this step.
i,m
6. If there are duplicate matches between i and j, we keep one at random. If this leaves
us with any workers or firms with a single match, we iteratively drop those as well.
7. We measure variances, covariance and hence the correlation ρ using the true types λ
b
and µ and the job durations tw according to formulae (16), (17), and (3).
8. Weconstructalogwagethatisconsistentwithworkerandfirmtypesaswellasthetotal
variance of wages. For worker i’s mth job, the log wage is ww = aλ +bµ +v ,
i,m i ji,m i,m
where v is an i.i.d. normal shock with mean 0 and standard deviation σ . The
i,m v
constants a and b satisfy
σ ρσ σ ρσ
λ µ µ λ
a = − and b = − , (47)
σ (1 ρ2) σ (1 ρ2)
λ µ
− −
and the variance of the log wage shock satisfies
σ2 +σ2 2ρσ σ
σ2 = σ2 λ µ − λ µ , (48)
v − 1 ρ2
−
where σ2 is the total variance of wages.
9. We use wage and duration data to estimate ρˆ using our estimator (25).
b
61

===== PDF PAGE 63 =====

We claim that the data set constructed this way has the desired properties. That is, if we
had an infinitely large data set, then the worker’s type is indeed λ, the firm’s type is µ, and
the correlation between them is ρ.
To prove this, first notice that because distribution of χ conditional on λ is normal,
i,m i
and the distribution of λ is normal, the unconditional distribution of χ is also normal.
i,m
The unconditional mean of χ is 0 by the law of iterated expectations. The expected
i,m
value of χ2 conditional on λ is the conditional variance plus the square of the mean,
i,m i
σ2(1 ρ2)+
λ2
i
ρ2σ
µ
2
. Thus the unconditional expectation of χ2 is
µ − σ λ 2 i,m
σ2(1 ρ2)+ρ2σ2 = σ2.
µ − µ µ
In short, the (unconditional) distribution of χ is normal with mean 0 and variance σ2.
i,m µ
Recall that distribution of µ is normal with mean 0 and variance σ2, and therefore (in an
µ
infinitely large data set) χ = µ , the type of the firm that employs i in her mth match.
i,m ji,m
We next show that the λ is indeed worker’s type, that is, the expected log wage of a
worker with λ is λ :
i i
E (ww ) = E (aλ +bµ +v ) = aλ + E (bµ )
λi i,m λi i ji,m i,m i λi ji,m
λ ρσ σ ρσ σ ρσ λ ρσ
i µ λ µ µ λ i µ
= aλ +b = − λ + − = λ .
i σ σ (1 ρ2) i σ (1 ρ2) σ i
λ λ µ λ
− −
A similar proof establishes that µ is indeed a firm type. First prove that the distribution of
λ conditional on µ is normal with mean µρσ /σ , and then the steps are symmetric to the
λ µ
steps in the argument that λ is worker’s type.
Finally, we prove that the correlation in the matched pairs is indeed ρ. The expected
valueofλµconditionalonλisλ2ρσ /σ , andthustheunconditionalexpectedvalueisρσ σ .
µ λ µ λ
This is the covariance between λ and µ. It then follows that the correlation is ρ. Thus our
data set has all the desired properties.
F Confidence Intervals
Weuseabootstrapproceduretoconstructstandarderrors. Ineachiterationofthebootstrap
b 1,...,B , we follow the procedure in Appendix E to construct artificial data sets that
∈ { }
match key moments of the real-world data: the estimated correlation between matched
worker and firm types ρˆ, the estimated variance of worker and firm types σ(cid:99)2 and σ(cid:99)2, as well
λ µ
as the variance of log wages, the number of workers and firms, the distribution of the number
of matches per worker M and per firm N , and the distribution of match durations. We take
i j
62

===== PDF PAGE 64 =====

these moments from our estimates, e.g. column (3) in Table 2, and we take the distributions
of the number of matches per firm and per worker and the distribution of match duration
from directly from the data.
In each data set, we calculate ρ and ρˆ as in Appendix B.3. Again let e = ρˆ ρ be
b b b b b
−
the estimation error in sample b. We find values e and e¯ such that
P(e e) = 0.025 and P(e > e¯) = 0.025.
b b
≤
The 95 percent confidence interval for ρ is [ρˆ+e,ρˆ+e¯], not necessarily centered around ρˆ.
Our procedure for constructing artificial data sets assumes that wages are homoscedastic
conditional on worker and firm types, but it is straightforward to relax this assumption.
This does not affect our confidence intervals. We have also constructed artificial data sets
where types are correlated with the number of observations. In particular, we assumed that
the worker types λ are distributed normally with a mean and variance that depends on M ,
i i
and that the firm types µ are distributed normally with a mean and variance that depends
j
on N . We constructed conditional distributions directly from the data by looking at the
j
ˆ
relationship between λ and M , and µˆ and N . Our estimated confidence interval for ρˆ is
i i j j
robust to this change.
G Time-Varying Types
Consider the following model of time-varying types. Time is discrete and denoted by t
∈
1,2,... . There are a continuum of workers i [0,1] and a continuum of firms j [0,1].
{ } ∈ ∈
For simplicity, each firm hires one worker in each period. A worker i has a permanent
characteristic λ ¯ , distributed in the population with mean zero and variance σ¯2 > 0. A firm
i λ
j has a permanent characteristic µ¯ , again distributed with mean zero and variance σ¯2 > 0.
j µ
¯
Types are changing over time but follow an ergodic distribution with mean λ for each
i
worker i. At time t, worker i has a type (expected wage) λ with cross-sectional mean zero
i,t
and cross-sectional variance σ2 > σ¯2, the cross-sectional variance of λ ¯ . Assume that the
λ λ i
covariance of λ and λ ¯ is σ¯2 and the conditional mean of λ is linear in λ ¯ and vice versa.
i,t i λ i,t i
¯ ¯ ¯
This implies that the expected value of λ given λ is λ , so λ is a reasonable measure of
i,t i i i
the time-averaged type. Conversely, the expected value of λ ¯ given λ is (σ¯2/σ2)λ .
i i,t λ λ i,t
Symmetrically, at time t firm j has a type (expected wage) µ which has an ergodic
j,t
distribution with mean µ¯ . In the cross section, the mean of µ is zero and the variance is
j j,t
σ2 > σ¯2. The covariance of µ and µ¯ is σ¯2 and the expected value of µ given µ¯ is µ¯ (so
µ µ j,t j µ j,t j j
µ¯ is the time-averaged type), while the expected value of µ¯ given µ is (σ¯2/σ2)µ .
j j j,t µ µ j,t
63

===== PDF PAGE 65 =====

Next, we assume that at any time t, the correlation between matched types λ and µ
i,t j,t
is ρ. Moreover, the expected value of λ given µ is ρσλµ and the expected value of µ
i,t j,t σµ j,t j,t
given λ is ρσµλ , i.e. conditional expectations are again linear.
i,t σλ i,t
Finally, we assume that only the time-varying type determines who matches with whom.
This implies two moment conditions. First, the distribution of µ conditional on λ and
j,t i,t
¯ ¯
λ does not depend on λ . In particular, the difference between µ and its expected value
i i j,t
¯
conditional on λ is orthogonal to λ :
i,t i
(cid:18)(cid:18) (cid:19) (cid:19)
ρσ ρσ ρσ
E µ µ λ λ ¯ = 0 E (µ λ ¯ ) = µE (λ λ ¯ ) = µ σ¯2. (49)
j,t − σ i,t i ⇒ j,t i σ i,t i σ λ
λ λ λ
The last equation uses the fact that the covariance between λ and λ ¯ is σ¯2.
i,t i λ
Second, think of a set of workers with the same value of λ matched to a set of workers
i,t
with the same value of µ . These workers may differ in their permanent type, but we do
j,t
not allow sorting on that basis. Formally, we impose that the distribution of µ¯ conditional
j
¯ ¯
on the time-varying type µ and the partner’s permanent type λ does not depend on λ . In
j,t i i
particular, the difference between µ¯ and its expected value conditional on µ is orthogonal
j j,t
¯
to λ :
i
(cid:18)(cid:18) σ¯2 (cid:19) (cid:19) σ¯2 ρσ¯2σ¯2
E µ¯ µ µ λ ¯ E (µ¯ λ ¯ ) = µE (µ λ ¯ ) = λ µ .
j − σ2 j,t i ⇒ j i σ2 j,t i σ σ
µ µ λ µ
The last equation uses equation (49) to eliminate E (λ λ ¯ ).
i,t i
The correlation between the time-averaged types is the covariance E (µ¯ λ ¯ ) divided by the
j i
productofthestandarddeviations, ρσ¯λσ¯µ. Sincethestandarddeviationsofthetime-averaged
σλσµ
types are smaller than the standard deviations of the time-varying types, σ¯ σ¯ < σ σ , this
λ µ λ µ
is smaller than ρ, proving the result.
H Methods for Estimation of AKM Correlation
H.1 OLS Estimation of the AKM Correlation
The OLS estimates of the AKM fixed effects solve the moment conditions
(cid:80)Mi (ww ψ ˆ ) (cid:80)Nj (wf αˆ )
αˆ = m=1 i,m − ji,m and ψ ˆ = n=1 j,n − ij,n .
i j
M N
i j
We approximate the solution to these using a zig-zag algorithm (Guimaraes and Portugal,
2010) with a single normalization, say αˆ = 0. Next we compute duration-weighted average
1
64

===== PDF PAGE 66 =====

fixed effects,
(cid:80) Twαˆ (cid:80) Tfψ ˆ
αˆ¯ i i i and ψ ˆ¯ j j j .
≡ (cid:80) Tw ≡ (cid:80) Tf
i i j j
We then use these to find duration-weighted variances and covariances:
(cid:80) Tw(αˆ αˆ¯)2 (cid:80) Tf(ψ ˆ ψ ˆ¯ )2
σˆ2 i i i − , σˆ2 j j j − ,
α ≡ (cid:80) Tw ψ ≡ (cid:80) Tf
i i j j
(cid:80) (cid:80)Mi tw (αˆ αˆ¯)(ψ ˆ ψ ˆ¯ )
and cˆ i m=1 i,m i − j − .
AKM ≡ (cid:80) Tw
i i
(cid:113)
Our OLS estimate of the duration-weighted AKM correlation is then ρˆ = cˆ / σˆ2σˆ2.
AKM AKM α ψ
H.2 Bias Correction Methods for the AKM Correlation
σˆ2 andσˆ2 areknowntobebiasedupandcˆ isknowntobebiaseddown, creatingabiasin
α ψ AKM
the correlation. We apply bias correction methods proposed by Andrews, Gill, Schank, and
Upward (2008) and Kline, Saggio, and Sølvsten (2019) and compute the AKM correlation
followingBonhomme, Lamadon, andManresa(2019). WerefertotheseestimatorsasAGSU,
KSS and BLM, respectively.
Andrews, Gill, Schank, and Upward (2008) and Kline, Saggio, and Sølvsten (2019) both
derive a bias correction for the variance of the worker and firm fixed effects and their covari-
ance but under different assumptions. Andrews, Gill, Schank, and Upward (2008) assume
that errors in the wage equation are homoskedastic, while Kline, Saggio, and Sølvsten (2019)
allow for heteroscedasticity. Both methods then use the bias-corrected moments to compute
the AKM correlation. We note that the correlation computed this way is not unbiased, but
Andrews, Gill, Schank, and Upward (2008) use simulations to show that in practice this bias
is negligible.
Both Andrews, Gill, Schank, and Upward (2008) and Kline, Saggio, and Sølvsten (2019)
offer exact formulae for the bias correction. However, these formulae require calculating the
inverse of an (I+J) (I+J) matrix where I is the number of workers and J is the number of
×
firms. When I +J is in the order of millions, as in our data sets, the exact formulae are not
tractable. Kline, Saggio, and Sølvsten (2019) show how to use the Johnson-Lindenstrauss
approximation to compute bias corrections in large data sets. The same approximation can
be applied to the AGSU methodology.
Bonhomme, Lamadon, and Manresa (2019) propose a two-step procedure to estimating
the correlation between the AKM fixed effects. In the first step, they use k-means clustering
65

===== PDF PAGE 67 =====

to classify firms into a given number of classes (ten in our case) based on their wage distri-
butions. We follow them in using ten firm classes. In the second step, they estimate their
model using maximum likelihood. Given the firm classification and a specified number of
worker types, five in our specification, they assume that the log wage paid by a given firm
type to a given worker type is log normal with unknown mean and standard deviation. They
then project this non-linear wage equation onto a linear function of worker and firm types
to obtain the AKM correlation.
In this section we estimate our correlation and the AKM correlation using different meth-
ods. Different estimators put different restrictions on the sample and so we create a sample
which satisfies all these restrictions at the same time. Methods proposed by Kline, Saggio,
and Sølvsten (2019) and Bonhomme, Lamadon, and Manresa (2019) are designed for short
panels. In their main applications, they have exactly two wage observations per worker.
AKM is identified on a connected set of firms and workers. Kline, Saggio, and Sølvsten
(2019) further require that this set remains connected after dropping any worker from the
set, and call it the leave-one-out connected set. Finally, recall that our estimator requires
that every worker and every firm in the sample has at least two observations.
Our starting point is the sample we used for the AKM estimation in Section 7. In this
sample, we keep only the first two observations for each worker to create a short panel, as in
Kline, Saggio, and Sølvsten (2019) and Bonhomme, Lamadon, and Manresa (2019). We find
the largest leave-one-out connected set and keep only workers and firms belonging to this
set, as in Kline, Saggio, and Sølvsten (2019). There are two observations per worker and at
least two observations per firm in the resulting sample, and hence it satisfies our restriction.
Using this sample, we first calculate ρˆ using our approach and ρˆ using OLS. Since
AKM
AGSU, KSS, and BLM do not weigh spells by duration, we also do not weigh spells when we
compute these two moments. That is, we set the duration of each match to 1, tw = tf = 1
i,m j,n
for each i = 1,...I, j = 1,...,J, m = 1,2, and n = 1,...,N . We compute the AGSU
j
and KSS bias corrected correlations using the code created by Kline, Saggio, and Sølvsten
(2019) which is available on GitHub, version 2.15.33 We choose the Johnson-Lindenstrauss
approximation method and set the precision parameter to ε = 0.005. We also use their code
to find the largest leave-one-out connected set. We estimate BLM using the code provided
by the authors on GitHub, version from March 15, 2019.34
Table 5 in the body of the paper shows the results. Imposing additional restrictions
on the sample reduces the number of workers by less than 7% and firms by less 43%, with
the exception of column (1). This sample size reduction does not have an economically
33 https://github.com/rsaggio87/LeaveOutTwoWay
34 https://github.com/tlamadon/rblm
66

===== PDF PAGE 68 =====

significant impact on our estimates ρˆ. The AKM correlation ρˆ decreases compared to
AKM
Table 4 and is now negative in each sample. The AGSU and KSS corrections are similar.
The bias-corrected correlations are both bigger than the OLS estimates of ρˆ , but remain
AKM
close to zero. The BLM estimates of the AKM correlation yields a higher estimate of the
AKM correlation, averaging 0.296 for men and 0.289 for women for the mixture model. Still,
these are much smaller than the estimates of our correlation.
Finally, we reconstruct the time series figure using these methods. For each year, we
start from the sample we used in Section 6.5 but keep only the first two wage observations
for each worker. We then find the largest leave-one-out connected set where each worker
and firm has at least two observations. We then compute unweighed ρˆand the OLS, AGSU,
KSS, and BLM estimates of ρˆ . Figure 7 depicts the results.
AKM
The level comparison is similar to that seen in Table 5: the OLS estimate of the AKM
correlation is the lowest, followed by AGSU and KSS. The BLM estimate is closer to ρˆ, which
is the highest. For both men and women, the time trend in the AGSU and KSS estimates
of ρˆ are similar to the time-trend in ρˆ: increasing for men and decreasing for women.
AKM
The BLM estimates of the AKM correlation shows little time trend, especially for women,
although its level is close to ρˆ.
References
Andrews, Martyn J., Leonard Gill, Thorsten Schank, and Richard Upward (2008). “High
Wage Workers and Low Wage Firms: Negative Assortative Matching or Limited Mobility
Bias?” Journal of the Royal Statistical Society: Series A (Statistics in Society) 171.3,
pp. 673–697.
Bonhomme, St´ephane, Thibaut Lamadon, and Elena Manresa (2019). “A Distributional
Framework for Matched Employer Employee Data”. Econometrica 87.3, pp. 699–738.
Guimaraes, Paulo and Pedro Portugal (2010). “A Simple Feasible Procedure to Fit Models
with High-Dimensional Fixed Effects”. The Stata Journal 10.4, pp. 628–649.
Kline, Patrick, Raffaele Saggio, and Mikkel Sølvsten (2019). Leave-out Estimation of Vari-
ance Components. NBER Working Paper No. 26244.
Malmberg, Hannes and Ola Ho¨ssler (2014). “Probabilistic Choice with an Infinite Set of
Options: An Approach Based on Random Sup Measures”. Modern Problems in Insur-
ance Mathematics. Ed. by Dmitrii Silvestrov and Anders Martin-Lo¨f. Springer. Chap. 18,
pp. 291–312.
67

===== PDF PAGE 69 =====

0.60
0.40
0.20
0.00
0.20
−
1985 1995 2005 2015
year
noitalerroc
Men
0.60
0.40
0.20
0.00
0.20
−
1985 1995 2005 2015
year
ρˆ ρˆ , OLS ρˆ , AGSU
AKM AKM
ρˆ , KSS ρˆ , BLM
AKM AKM
noitalerroc
Women
Figure7: Year-by-yearestimatesofthecorrelationρandtheAKMcorrelationusingdifferent
methods, using AMDB 1986–2018 and the independence assumption III. The initial data
construction is identical to that in Figure 3 but we further restrict the sample in each
year to the largest leave-one-out connected set where every worker has exactly two distinct
employers, and every firm employs at least two workers. The estimates are not weighted by
duration.
68