

===== PDF PAGE 1 =====

∗
Assortative Matching and Wages: The Role of Selection
Katar´ına Boroviˇckov´a Robert Shimer
FRB Richmond University of Chicago
October 23, 2025
Abstract
Wedeveloparandomsearchmodelwithtwo-sidedheterogeneityandmatch-specific
productivity shocks to explain why high-productivity workers tend to work at high-
productivity firms despite low-productivity workers gaining about as much from such
matches. Our model has two key predictions: i) a worker’s wage is additively separable
in a component that depends on the worker’s productivity, a component that depends
on the firm’s productivity, and a conditionally mean zero error term; and (ii) there
is assortative matching between high wage workers and high wage firms. Selective
job acceptance drives these patterns. All workers are equally likely to meet all firms,
but workers have higher surplus from meeting firms of similar productivity. The high
surplus meetings result in matches more frequently, generating assortative matching.
Only the subset of meetings that result in matches are observed in administrative wage
data, shaping wages. When all separations are exogenous, conventional two-way fixed
effects estimators give unbiased estimates of the effect of a random job meeting to
an unemployed worker conditional on the worker taking the job, but cannot measure
the unconditional effect of the job offer. With endogenous separations, conventional
estimators of the conditional value of the meeting are biased as well, and this bias is
difficult to detect using standard empirical approaches. We show that our results are
robust to allowing for on-the-job search in the model.
∗
We are grateful for comments from Fernando Alvarez, Gadi Barlevy, St´ephane Bonhomme, Jaroslav
Boroviˇcka, Pawe(cid:32)l Gola, Kyle Herkenhoff, Juanna Schrøter Joensen, Philipp Kircher, Patrick Kline, Thibaut
Lamadon, Guido Menzio, Magne Mogstad, Simon Mongey, Christian Moser, Andreas Mueller, Derek Neal,
Ezra Oberfield, Benjamin Schoefer, Isaac Sorkin, four anonymous referees, and Larry Katz, as well as
numerousworkshopparticipants. Anyremainingerrorsareourown. Theviewsexpressedhereinarethoseof
theauthorsandnotnecessarilythoseoftheFederalReserveBankofRichmondortheFederalReserveSystem.

===== PDF PAGE 2 =====

1 Introduction
Why do high-wage workers tend to work at high-wage firms, even though low-wage workers
seem to enjoy similar wage gains from such jobs? Following the path-breaking study by
Abowd, Kramarz and Margolis (1999) using administrative wage data, these empirical regu-
larities have been extensively documented, yet the economic forces generating them remain
unknown. Bonhomme, Lamadon and Manresa (2019, p. 701) write that “the presence of
strong sorting, together with the absence of strong complementarities in wages, is difficult
to reconcile with models where sorting is driven by complementarities in production, as in
Becker (1973).” This paper proposes a natural reconciliation.
Weprovethatarandomsearchmodelwithproductivecomplementaritiesbetweenhetero-
geneous workers and firms, match-specific productivity shocks, and Nash-bargained wages
offers a unified explanation for these patterns. Under simple conditions, the wage that a
worker is paid can be expressed as the sum of a component that depends on the worker’s
type, a component that depends on the firm’s type, and an error term that is orthogonal to
both. This means that all workers receive on average an equal increase in the wage when
workingatahigherfirmtype. Nevertheless, whentheproductiontechnologyissuitablycom-
plementary, we prove that there is assortative matching between high-productivity workers
and high-productivity firms.1
Our theoretical results arise from a novel mechanism: selective hiring. While all workers
areequallylikelytomeetallfirms, thelikelihoodthatamatchformsdependsontheworker’s
and firm’s productivity. High-productivity firms rarely hire low-productivity job seekers, but
when match-specific productivity is high enough, these workers are hired at a wage above
the average wage earned by other low-productivity workers. Similarly, low-productivity
firms seldom hire high-productivity workers unless match-specific productivity is unusually
high. This selective hiring creates a systematic difference between the matches we observe
in administrative data and all meetings between workers and firms, driving both sorting
patterns and the behavior of wages.
Our model not only offers a rationalization for the two-way fixed effects specification
in Abowd, Kramarz and Margolis (1999), but it also offers an economically meaningful
interpretationoftheoutputoftheseregressions. AsCard, Cardoso, HeiningandKline(2018,
p. S16) note: “in the firm-switching literature, a key question is whether conventionally
estimated firm-specific pay premiums predict the wage changes associated with exogenously
1A corollary of these results is that high-productivity workers are high-wage workers while high-
productivity firms are high-wage firms, which is important for interpretation. In our model productivity
drives behavior, but administrative data sets often record wages rather than productivity. We maintain this
distinction in our terminology throughout the paper.
1

===== PDF PAGE 3 =====

induced job accessions and separations.” To answer this, we consider a concrete policy
experiment: unemployed workers are introduced to different jobs, which they may accept or
refuse. We show that the conventional estimators of the two-way fixed effects model yield
biased estimates of the intent to treat (ITT), because administrative wage data contains no
information about workers who choose not to take jobs. Nevertheless, they yield unbiased
estimates of the average treatment on the treated (ATT), i.e. of the effect of the meeting on
those workers who are hired.
We then extend our model to introduce endogenous separations, by making the match-
specificshockevolveovertimeforemployedworkers,withagrowthratethatisindependently
and identically distributed over time and across workers. We show that the model remains
analytically tractable. In particular, the wage that a worker is paid at a point in time is
still the sum of a component that depends on the worker’s type, a component that depends
on the firm’s type, and a serially correlated error term that is orthogonal to the first two
components. But with endogenous separations, we show that conventional estimators of
the two-way fixed effects model yield biased estimates of the ATT because the estimators
necessarily rely on the wages of movers, i.e. workers who leave one job and start another; and
the wages of movers are a non-representative sample of all wages due to endogenous match
dissolutions. We obtain an analytical expression for the bias and show why this endogenous
mobility may be difficult to detect using conventional tests, such as the one Card, Heining
and Kline (2013) propose and implement. If we could observe both workers’ and firms’ true
types, there would be no bias in the two-way fixed effects regression.
Finally, we enrich our model to incorporate on-the-job search, with wages evolving in a
manner based on Cahuc, Postel-Vinay and Robin (2006). We can no longer solve the model
analytically, but instead use this more realistic framework to show the robustness of our
results to several features: on-the-job search, using log wages rather than wages in the two-
way fixed effects regression, and measuring the average wage in the main job in a given year,
rather than the last wage before and first wage after a job-to-job transition. We replicate our
previous analytical results numerically. First, our model generates log wages that are nearly
additively separable in component that depends on the worker’s type, a component that
depends on the firm’s type, and a persistent orthogonal error term. Second, conventional
fixed effects estimators give biased estimates of both the ITT and ATT. Third, these biases
may be difficult to detect using conventional tests (Card, Heining and Kline, 2013). Finally,
we explore other implications of this model, such as the implications for the frequency of
wage cuts from job-to-job moves, which is nearly 50 percent in our model.
The match-specific component of wages is central to our analysis and represents a sig-
nificant departure from previous research. While earlier studies acknowledged significant
2

===== PDF PAGE 4 =====

residual wage variation, they typically treated these residuals as measurement error or time-
varyingworkerheterogeneitythatdoesnotaffectjobchoice. Inourframeworktheseresiduals
are evidence of the match-specific shocks that drive selective hiring and separations.
Our paper contributes to several strands of literature. First, we build on empirical work
using matched employer-employee data to study wage determination and sorting (Abowd,
Kramarz and Margolis, 1999; Andrews, Gill, Schank and Upward, 2008; Card, Heining and
Kline, 2013; Card, Cardoso and Kline, 2016; Alvarez, Benguria, Engbom and Moser, 2018;
Song, Price, Guvenen, Bloom and Von Wachter, 2019; Bonhomme, Lamadon and Manresa,
2019; Kline, Saggio and Sølvsten, 2020; Bonhomme, Holzheu, Lamadon, Manresa, Mogstad
and Setzler, 2023). We provide a simple and novel theoretical mechanism that can explain
the empirical regularities documented in these papers.
Second, Card, Cardoso, HeiningandKline(2018), Lamadon, MogstadandSetzler(2022),
and Lamadon, Lise, Meghir and Robin (2024) develop theoretical models with idiosyncratic
and systematic differences in amenity valuations that are consistent with the same set of
empirical findings. These papers use a static discrete choice framework while we use a
dynamic search model. We thus address a key previously unresolved question raised by
Card, Cardoso, Heining and Kline (2018, p. 18): “to what extent do insights from simple
static wage-setting models of workplace differentiation carry over to dynamic labor market
settings with search or mobility frictions?” A more fundamental difference is that the models
in these earlier papers satisfy the exogenous mobility assumption, so selection does not affect
measured wages. Future research should investigate the data needed to separately identify
the mechanisms proposed by these distinct approaches.
Third, we build on a large literature that studies how selection affects measured wages,
dating back to early econometric analyses of the Roy (1951) model (Borjas, 1987; Heckman
and Honore, 1990). Noe (2020) offers a recent theoretical analysis of this question in an
environment where a worker is choosing between a finite number of alternative jobs at a
point in time. The previous research does not study how selection shapes regressions of
wages on worker and firm fixed effects, nor does it look at the connection between selection
and assortative matching.
Fourth, we contribute to the theoretical literature on conditions for assortative match-
ing between heterogeneous workers and firms in labor markets with random search (Shimer
and Smith, 2000; Hagedorn, Law and Manovskii, 2017; Lopes de Melo, 2018; Bagger and
Lentz, 2019). Our model extends this literature by incorporating match-specific shocks, as in
Gouss´e, Jacquemet and Robin (2017)’s model of the marriage market, and highlighting the
role of selection in job acceptance decisions. The introduction of time-varying match-specific
shocks into a framework with two-sided heterogeneity is novel. Our characterization of con-
3

===== PDF PAGE 5 =====

ditions for assortative matching recalls similar conditions in competitive search models (Shi,
2001, 2005; Shimer, 2005; Eeckhout and Kircher, 2010) and models with non-transferable
utility (Smith, 2006; Bonneton and Sandmann, 2023). The details of the mechanisms are
quite different, and in particular selection does not play a role in those papers. Those earlier
papers also do not try to fit the empirical findings on how wages depend on worker and firm
productivity. Our model bridges this gap by providing a framework that not only explains
sorting patterns but also shows how the same selection force that generates sorting drives
the wage patterns in administrative data sets.
The rest of the paper is structured as follows. Section 2 develops the simplest version of
our model. In Section 3, we derive conditions for the wage to be an additively separable and
increasing function of worker productivity, firm productivity, and a conditionally mean zero
error term. We also show that conventional estimates of wage premia are informative about
the ATT but not the ITT in this environment. Section 4 derives conditions for assortative
matchingofhigh-productivityworkerstohigh-productivityjobs. Section5extendsthemodel
to allow for endogenous separations by making the match-specific shock vary over time. We
prove that the results on assortative matching and additively separable wages carry over to
this environment. We also prove that conventional estimators of wage premium yield biased
estimates of the ATT when separations are endogenous, and that conventional tests of the
exogenous mobility assumption may lack power. Finally, in Section 6 we extend our model
to incorporate on-the-job search and show that our main analytical results are reflected in
numerical results in a quantitative version of the model. Section 7 concludes by discussing
how our results affect the economic interpretation of patterns in administrative wage data,
in particular for our understanding of why wage inequality grew in recent decades.
2 Model
We formulate a search model with two-sided heterogeneity (Shimer and Smith, 2000) and
match-specificheterogeneity(Gouss´e, JacquemetandRobin,2017). Themodelisformulated
incontinuoustimeandwefocusonsteadystatesandsodroptimeargumentsinwhatfollows.
2.1 Assumptions
There is measure M of risk-neutral workers and measure N of risk-neutral firms. Everyone
discounts the future at rate r > 0. There are X worker types indexed by x = 1,...,X. The
population measure of type-x workers is m > 0, with
(cid:80)X
m = M. There are Y firm
x x=1 x
types indexed by y = 1,...,Y, with population measure n > 0 and
(cid:80)Y
n = N. Workers
y y=1 y
4

===== PDF PAGE 6 =====

can be either unemployed or matched to one firm; likewise, firms can be either vacant or
matched to one worker. Thus, in this model, a firm and a job are identical.
Search is random and for now only unemployed workers and vacant jobs can search. Let
u bethepopulationmeasureofunemployedtype-xworkers, sothat ux istheunemployment
x mx
rate for type x. Similarly, let v be the population measure of type-y vacancies, with vy the
y ny
vacancyrateofy. Allunemployedworkerscontactvacanttype-y firmsaccordingtoaPoisson
process with arrival rate ρv for y = 1,...,Y, where ρ > 0. Likewise, all vacant firms contact
y
unemployed type-x workers at rate ρu for x = 1,...,X.2
x
When a worker and firm meet, they learn the value of a match-specific productivity
shock z drawn from a distribution function with density g(z) and cumulative distribution
function G(z). The shock is independent across all worker and firm pairs. By definition, the
distribution function G : R R is non-decreasing. We assume the mean productivity
+ +
→
(cid:82)
draw, z
∗ ≡ 0
∞zg(z)dz, is finite, which is necessary for existence of an equilibrium.
Afteranunemployedtype-xworkermeetsavacanttype-y firmanddrawsamatch-specific
productivity shock z, they decide whether to match. If they match, they stop searching and
produce flow output zf . A matched worker and firm split the surplus according to Nash
x,y
bargaining, with worker’s bargaining power equal to γ (0,1). We assume f > 0 for all
x,y
∈
x and y. Matches end at rate δ > 0, leaving the worker unemployed and the job vacant.
2.2 Value Functions
In the remainder of this section, we develop the formal model. We emphasize in advance
that our analytical results in Sections 3 and 4 rely on only three expressions: the selection
equation (6), the structural wage equation (9), and the steady state equation (13).
We start by formulating the value functions of workers and firms. For a type-x unem-
ployed worker, let the expected present value of income be Vu:
x
Y (cid:90)
rVu = ρ (cid:88) v ∞ max (cid:8) Ve (z,W (z)) Vu,0 (cid:9) g(z)dz. (1)
x y x,y x,y − x
y=1 0
At rate ρv , the worker meets a vacant type y firm. They then draw match-specific produc-
y
tivity z from a distribution with density g(z). After that, they decide whether to match. If
they do, the worker’s value jumps to Ve (z,W (z)), the expected present value of income
x,y x,y
2This is a quadratic matching technology (Diamond and Maskin, 1979), so the total number of matches
is a homogeneous of degree two in unemployment u X and vacancies v Y . It is straightforward to
{ x }x=1 { y }y=1
prove Propositions 3–9 with a linear matching technology (homogeneous of degree one), at the cost only of
additionalnotationalcomplexity. Similarly, our numericalresultscarryover exactlytoanenvironmentwith
a linear matching technology.
5

===== PDF PAGE 7 =====

for a type x worker matched to a type y firm in a match with productivity z and earning
the equilibrium wage W (z). Nash bargaining implies that both parties agree on whether
x,y
to match, so the worker matches whenever the value of being in the match, Ve (z,W (z)),
x,y x,y
exceeds the value of being unmatched, Vu.
x
Once the worker is in the match, we have the corresponding Bellman equation
rVe (z,w) = w+δ(Vu Ve (z,w)). (2)
x,y x − x,y
This equation describes a type x worker at a type y firm with match-specific shock z earning
an arbitrary wage w. The worker earns the wage until the match ends exogenously. This
implies that the worker will accept the match (Ve (z,w) Vu) if and only if w rVu w¯ ,
x,y ≥ x ≥ x ≡ x
the worker’s reservation wage.
The Bellman equations for firms are symmetric:
X (cid:90)
rVv = ρ (cid:88) ∞ u max (cid:8) Vf (z,W (z)) Vv,0 (cid:9) g(z)dz (3)
y x y,x x,y − y
x=1 0
rVf (z,w) = zf w+δ(Vv Vf (z,w)). (4)
y,x x,y − y − y,x
Notably, a type y firm earns flow profit zf w when employing a type x worker in a match
x,y
−
with productivity z and paying a wage w. The firm will accept the match (Vf (z,w) Vv)
y,x ≥ y
if and only if zf w rVv π¯ , the firm’s reservation profit.
x,y − ≥ y ≡ y
We define the match surplus as
max zf w¯ π¯ ,0
Vs (z) Ve (z,w)+Vf (z,w) Vu Vv = { x,y − x − y }, (5)
x,y ≡ x,y y,x − x − y r+δ
where the second equation follows from equations (2) and (4) and the definitions of the
reservation wage w¯ and reservation profit π¯ . The match surplus is strictly positive, mean-
x y
ing there exists a wage w which is acceptable both to the worker (Ve (z,w) Vu) and
x,y ≥ x
firm (Vf (z,w) Vv), if and only if the match-specific productivity shock z exceeds the
y,x ≥ y
reservation level z¯ , where
x,y
w¯ +π¯
x y
z¯ . (6)
x,y
≡ f
x,y
This selection equation is central to our analysis. As we discuss in Sections 3 and 4, it shapes
which wages we observe in the data and how often we observe different types of matches. For
now, an implication of the reservation productivity level is that we can rewrite the match
6

===== PDF PAGE 8 =====

surplus in equation (5) as
(cid:26) (cid:27)
z w¯ +π¯
Vs (z) = max 1,0 x y . (7)
x,y z¯ − r+δ
x,y
Finally, when the match surplus is positive, we use Nash bargaining to pin down the equi-
librium wage W (z):
x,y
W (z) = argmax(Ve (z,w) Vu)γ(Vf (z,w) Vv)1 γ. (8)
x,y w x,y − x y,x − y −
Using equations (2) and (4), as well as the definitions of the reservation wage and reservation
profit, it is straightforward to show that this implies the structural wage equation
W (z) = w¯ +γ(zf w¯ π¯ ) (9)
x,y x x,y x y
− −
for z z¯ . Putting this together with the fact that a worker and firm match whenever
x,y
≥
z z¯ , we get that type x workers match with type y firms at rate ρu v (1 G(z¯ )), with
x,y x y x,y
≥ −
matches formed whenever W (z) w¯ , a type-x worker’s reservation wage. Symmetrically,
x,y x
≥
a type-y firm agrees to match with a type-x worker whenever zf W (z) π¯ , a type-y
x,y x,y y
− ≥
firm’s reservation profit.
Wecannowcombinetheseequationstogetasimplerexpressionforaworker’sreservation
wageandafirm’sreservationprofit. Eliminatethewagefromequation(2)usingequation(9)
and the definition of reservation productivity in equation (6) to get:
γf (z z¯ )
Ve (z,W (z)) Vu = x,y − x,y . (10)
x,y x,y − x r+δ
Substitute that into equation (1) to get:
Y (cid:90)
γρ (cid:88) ∞
w¯ = v f (z z¯ )g(z)dz. (11)
x y x,y x,y
r+δ −
y=1 z¯x,y
Analogous steps lead to the equation for a firm’s reservation profit:
X (cid:90)
(1 γ)ρ (cid:88) ∞
π¯ = − u f (z z¯ )g(z)dz. (12)
y x x,y x,y
r+δ −
x=1 z¯x,y
Using these equations, we prove a useful preliminary result, that the reservation wage and
reservation profit are increasing if the production function is increasing:
Lemma 1 Assumef isstrictlyincreasinginxandy. Inanysolutiontoequations (6),(11),
x,y
7

===== PDF PAGE 9 =====

and (12), the reservation wage w¯ and reservation profit π¯ are strictly increasing.
x y
The proof is in Appendix A.1.
2.3 State Variables and Equilibrium
To close the model, we need to find the steady state values of u and v . To do this, we
x y
first define the steady state measure of (x,y) matches, ϕ ¯ . This satisfies the steady state
x,y
equation
¯
δϕ = ρu v (1 G(z¯ )). (13)
x,y x y x,y
−
The left hand side is the rate that these matches end, while the right hand side is the rate
that unemployed type-x workers (measure u ) meet vacant type-y jobs (ρv ) in a match with
x y
an acceptable z (share 1 G(z¯ ) of such meetings). We can also find the distribution of z
x,y
−
in (x,y) matches. This is simply the distribution of idiosyncratic shocks truncated below at
the acceptance threshold:
G(z) G(z¯ )
x,y
Φ (z) − . (14)
x,y
≡ 1 G(z¯ )
x,y
−
We introduce this expression here for comparison with the model of endogenous separations
that we use later in the paper.
By adding the measures of matches, we can then recover the unemployment and vacancy
measures:
Y
(cid:88)
¯
u = m ϕ (15)
x x x,y
−
y=1
X
(cid:88)
¯
v = n ϕ . (16)
y y x,y
−
x=1
¯
An equilibrium is given by (w¯,π¯,z¯,ϕ,u,v) satisfying equations (6), (11), (12), (13), (15),
and (16). We can prove
Proposition 1 An equilibrium exists. In any equilibrium, the reservation wage w¯ and
x
reservation profit π¯ are strictly positive for all x and y.
y
The proof is in Appendix A.1.
We note that a model like this may have multiple equilibria (Burdett and Coles, 1997).
All of our claims apply to any steady state equilibrium.
8

===== PDF PAGE 10 =====

2.4 Treatment Effects
In a random search environment, the jobs that a worker takes depend in part the vagaries
of the matching process. It is therefore natural to wonder how, by changing which firms
a worker meets, one can improve the worker’s well-being. Indeed, some economists have
experimented with information treatments that encourage workers to apply for different
types of jobs (Belot, Kircher and Muller, 2019). Others have imagined place-based policies
that incentivize firms to relocate in order to facilitate certain types of meetings (Bilal, 2023;
Hong, 2024). Here we use our model to understand which meetings are most valuable to a
given type of worker.
To be concrete, we think of the following experiment: we create a meeting between an
unemployed type-x worker and a vacant type-y job, and ask how this meeting affects the
expected present value of the worker’s income. When the meeting results in a match, Nash
bargaining implies that the expected present value of the worker’s income increases by a
fraction γ of the match surplus:
Ve (z,W (z)) Vu = γVs (z).
x,y x,y − x x,y
Thisdependsontheworker’stypex, thefirm’stypey, andtherealizationoftheidiosyncratic
shock, z. If Vs (z) > 0, the match is created, while Vs (z) = 0 when the match is rejected.
x,y x,y
Thus the increase in the expected present value of the worker’s income, the causal effect of
this experiment, is equal to the worker’s share of the match surplus.
Now imagine we know x and y but do not know z, and so calculate the increase in the
expected present value of the worker’s income conditional only on x and y. According to
our model, this is
(cid:90)
ITT (y) γ ∞ Vs (z)g(z)dz, (17)
x ≡ x,y
0
where ITT stands for the intent-to-treat. Since Vs (z) = 0 for z < z¯ , this is equivalent to
x,y x,y
(cid:90)
ITT (y) = γ ∞ Vs (z)g(z)dz. (18)
x x,y
z¯x,y
If we knew the parameters of our model, we could calculate this using the structure of the
equilibrium. In Section 3.2, we analyze whether we can recover this from administrative
wage data.
A related concept is the increase in the expected present value of the worker’s income
conditional on x, y, and on the fact that the worker and firm match when they meet, i.e.
9

===== PDF PAGE 11 =====

z > z¯ :
x,y
(cid:82)
∞ Vs (z)g(z)dz
ATT (y) γ
z¯x,y x,y
. (19)
x
≡ 1 G(z¯ )
x,y
−
We call this the average treatment on the treated (ATT) because it represents the causal
effect of the meeting on earnings conditional on the meeting actually resulting in the worker
and firm agreeing to match. It differs from the ITT because the workers who are treated
(take the job) are selected based on the gain from taking the job.
In our view, the ITT is the parameter of interest. For example, the goal of the Belot,
Kircher and Muller (2019) information treatment and of the Bilal (2023) and Hong (2024)
place-based policies is to raise workers’ value without knowing whether new meetings will
result in matches. While the ATT is not the parameter of interest, we introduce it here
because we show in Section 3.2 that the firm component of wages is closely related to the
ATT, but not to the ITT.
In order to recover the ITT from the ATT, we could use the steady state condition (13)
to rewrite equations (18) and (19) as
¯
δϕ
x,y
ITT (y) = ATT (y). (20)
x x
ρu v
x y
¯
If we knew x and y for all workers and firms, as well as the ATT, we could calculate ϕ ,
x,y
u and v for all x and y, and thus recover the ITT using the structure of our model.
x y
We note that this approach is reliant on the untestable assumption that all workers are
as likely to meet all firms, i.e. search is completely random. Imagine a slight generalization
of our model which allows that the rate an unemployed type x worker meets a vacant type
y job is ρ u v . As is well-known (Flinn and Heckman, 1982), we cannot use adminis-
x,y x y
trative wage data to identify whether type x workers match infrequently with type y firms
because they don’t often meet them (low ρ ) or because those meetings are unlikely to
x,y
have an idiosyncratic shock that exceeds the productivity threshold z¯ (low 1 G(z¯ )).
x,y x,y
−
Equation (20) is thus only useful for recovering the ITT conditional on the random search
assumption.
3 Wages
This section characterizes the wage that worker i of type x earns from firm j of type y when
i j
she works there, ω . We prove that when z has a Pareto distribution, ω is an additively
i,j i,j
separable function of a component that depends on the worker’s type, a component that
depends on the firm type, and a heteroskedastic error that has a mean zero for all workers
10

===== PDF PAGE 12 =====

and firms.3 The error term reflects the distribution of the match-specific shock, which we
treat as unobserved by the economist throughout this section. We then show that the
firm component in the wage is closely related to the ATT from the experiment outlined in
Section 2.4.
We next consider the output of a standard two-way fixed effects regression (Abowd,
Kramarz and Margolis, 1999), proving that those regressions provide unbiased estimates of
the worker and firm components up to an unidentified additive constant. As a result, the
differencebetweentheestimatesoftwofirms’componentsgiveusanunbiasedestimateofthe
difference between the ATTs. However, the two-way fixed effects estimates do not directly
tell us the ITT, or the difference between two ITTs. Finally, we discuss what changes if we
regress log wages, rather than the level of wages, on worker and firm fixed effects.
3.1 Additive Separability of Wages
This section proves one of our main results: when the idiosyncratic shock z has a Pareto
distribution, the wage of worker i at firm j, ω , can be expressed as the sum of three terms:
i,j
a component α that depends on the worker’s type x , a component ψ that depends on
x∗
i
i y∗
j
the firm’s type y , and a conditional mean-zero heteroskedastic error term ϵ .
j i,j
We assume throughout that the shock distribution is Pareto, so G(z) = 1 (z/z ) θ,
0 −
−
where the shape parameter θ exceeds 1 to ensure a finite mean. We look at cases where there
is an interior solution for the threshold z¯ for all pairs (x,y), 0 < z < z min z¯ , as
x,y 0 x,y x,y
¯ ≡
will be the case if ρ is sufficiently large.4 This ensures that for all types (x,y), a match is
rejected if z is sufficiently small and accepted if z is sufficiently large.
Proposition 2 Assume z has a Pareto distribution with scale parameter z , 0 < z <
0 0
min z¯ , and shape parameter θ > 1. Let ω denote the wage in a match between worker
x,y x,y i,j
i of type x and firm j of type y , i.e. conditional on z z¯ . Then
i j
≥
xi,yj
ω = α +ψ +ϵ , (21)
i,j x∗
i
y∗
j
i,j
3In Appendix E, we examine the case where z has an exponential distribution. Appendix E.3 considers
the extent to which our results are robust with other distributions.
4Parameterize the contact rate as ρ = ρ¯z−θ, so the rate that an unemployed worker contacts a vacant
0
type-y firm and has productivity at least z is ρ¯z−θv for z >z , independent of z . For given ρ¯, a change in
y 0 0
z does not affect the equilibrium allocation as long as z z. Thus focusing on small values of z does not
0 0 0
≤¯
changethearrivalrateof“good”matches. Wecouldsidestepanydiscussionofz byassumingthatmeetings
0
with match quality at least equal to z occur at rate ρ¯z−θ times the relevant vacancy or unemployment rate
for any z, as in Oberfield (2018) and Buera and Oberfield (2020).
11

===== PDF PAGE 13 =====

where
(cid:18) (cid:19)
γ γ
α 1+ w¯ , ψ π¯ , ϵ γ(w¯ +π¯ )ν , (22)
x∗
≡ θ 1
x y∗
≡ θ 1
y i,j
≡
xi yj i,j
− −
and ν is an independently and identically distributed random variable with mean zero and
i,j
cumulative distribution
(cid:18) (cid:19) θ
θ − 1
Φ (ν) 1 ν + for all ν . (23)
ν
≡ − θ 1 ≥ −θ 1
− −
The proof is in Appendix A.2.
There are several pieces to unpack from Proposition 2. First, the distribution of wages in
a match between worker i and firm j depends only on four numbers: the worker’s reservation
wage w¯ , the firm’s reservation profit π¯ , the worker’s bargaining power γ, and the Pareto
x y
shape parameter θ. The production technology f does not explicitly enter this expression.
x,y
This tells us that the wage distribution is not useful for learning about the production
technology f, while simultaneously yielding strong and testable predictions for how wages
behave across different types of matches.
Second, workers who have a higher reservation wage earn more on average at any type
of employer, and similarly firms that have a higher reservation profit pay more on average
to any type of worker. When the production function is strictly increasing, this implies that
more productive firms pay higher wages on average to all worker types, in line with a variety
of empirical evidence, e.g. Alvarez, Benguria, Engbom and Moser (2018). But to understand
the power of Proposition 2, it is useful to consider a non-monotonic production function
f. That is, suppose that there are worker types x and x and firm types y and y such
1 2 1 2
that f > f and f < f . One might conjecture that with Nash bargaining, this
x1,y1 x1,y2 x2,y1 x2,y2
non-monotonicity would imply a similar ordering of average wages. Proposition 2 establishes
that this cannot happen: π¯ > π¯ implies the expected wage of a type x worker is higher
y2 y1
at a type y firm than at a type y firm for all x.
2 1
Proposition 2 also implies that all workers have the same ranking of average wages across
firm types y, determined by the reservation profit π¯ . This result stands in contrast to the
y
findings in Shimer and Smith (2000), a similar model except that the distribution of the
idiosyncratic shock, G, is degenerate. In that case, an unproductive worker’s wage may be
maximized at low-type firm, while a more productive worker’s wage is maximized at a high-
type firm. See Eeckhout and Kircher (2011) and Lopes de Melo (2018) for an elaboration of
this observation. The common ranking of average wages that our model predicts is in line
with a growing body of empirical evidence (Bonhomme, Lamadon and Manresa, 2019).
Finally, Proposition 2 provides an exact additive separability result, which rationalizes
12

===== PDF PAGE 14 =====

regressing wages on worker and firm fixed effects, as well as a heteroskedastic error term.
This is in line with a large body of empirical research, starting with Abowd, Kramarz and
Margolis (1999), though typically the dependent variable in these regressions is the log wage,
not the level of the wage. We discuss the relationship between regressions in levels and logs
in Section 3.4 below.
3.2 The Firm Component and Treatment Effects
In this section, we show the close link between the firm component of wages, ψ defined in
y∗
equation (22), and the ATT, defined in equation (19). To begin, we rewrite the ATT using
the Pareto functional form for the match-specific shock distribution, as well as the definition
of the surplus function in equation (7):
γ(w¯ +π¯ )
x y
ATT (y) = . (24)
x
(θ 1)(r+δ)
−
Then replace the reservation values w¯ and π¯ with the worker and firm components α and
x y x∗
ψ using their definitions in equation (22):
y∗
γ α +ψ
γ+θ 1 x∗ y∗
ATT x (y) = − . (25)
r+δ
Thus the average treatment effect depends on the worker component of wages α , the firm
x∗
component ψ , the discount rate r, the separation rate δ, worker’s bargaining power γ, and
y∗
the Pareto shape parameter θ.
Next,lookatthedifferenceinATTsbetweentwojobsforasingleworker,∆ATT (y ,y )
x 1 2
≡
ATT (y ) ATT (y ):
x 1 x 2
−
ψ ψ
∆ATT (y ,y ) =
y∗
1 −
y∗
2. (26)
x 1 2
r+δ
Thedifferential average treatment on the treated isequaltothepresentvalueofthedifference
between the firm wage components, discounting both because of impatience r and because
of match impermanence δ. Importantly, this is the same for all workers.
What about the intent to treat? From equations (18) and (19),
(cid:18) (cid:19) θ
z¯ x,y −
ITT (y) = (1 G(z¯ ))ATT (y) = ATT (y), (27)
x x.y x x
− z
0
where the second equation uses the Pareto functional form. The difference between the
ITT and ATT reflects selection-on-gains: when we observe a worker matched to a job, the
realization of the idiosyncratic shock must have been large enough to ensure the meeting led
13

===== PDF PAGE 15 =====

to a match. The difficulty in measuring the ITT is that the likelihood that a meeting results
in a match varies across (x,y) pairs. Moreover, the worker and firm wage components do not
capture this likelihood. To be clear, one could structurally estimate the model and recover
the ITT; our point is merely that the worker and firm components of wages alone reveal the
ATT, not the ITT. To obtain the ITT, we would also need to know how frequently a meeting
results in a match.
There are two special cases where selection-on-gains is not a big problem, so the ATT
is informative about the ITT. First, when match-specific productivity is degenerate, z = z
∗
for all matches, as in Shimer and Smith (2000), then any (x,y) pair either always matches
or never matches. For pairs that always match, the ITT and ATT are the same, while for
pairs that never match, we cannot hope to measure either the ITT or ATT. Unfortunately,
a degenerate match-specific productivity shock is not empirically plausible. Such a model
cannot explain why there is a wage residual, predicts wages are generally hump-shaped in
firm type (Eeckhout and Kircher, 2011; Lopes de Melo, 2018), and predicts that certain
types of matches will never be formed.
Second, if all firms had the same acceptance threshold for a given worker, z¯ = z¯ for all
x,y x
y, selection would truncate the distribution of match-specific shocks identically. This would
imply that the differential intent-to-treat, ∆ITT (y ,y ) ITT (y ) ITT (y ), is equal to
x 1 2 x 1 x 2
≡ −
the differential ATT times the probability a meeting turns into a match:
(cid:18) (cid:19) θ
z¯ x −
∆ITT (y ,y ) = ∆ATT (y ,y ) . (28)
x 1 2 x 1 2
z
0
Equation (26) showed the close link between the differential ATT and the firm component
of wages. Moreover, under the random search assumption, we can measure the job accep-
tance probability using worker flow data. This suggests an empirical approach to estimating
the differential ITT using the firm component of wages and worker flow data under the
assumption that z¯ = z¯ for all y.
x,y x
In our model, however, z¯ varies systematically with both worker and firm types. We
x,y
argue in Section 4 that this systematic selection is empirically reasonable and evident in the
data: it generates realistic assortative matching between workers and firms. High produc-
tivity workers are more likely to match with high productivity firms than low productivity
workers are, even though low productivity workers gain proportionately more from such
matches when they occur. This assortative matching pattern arises because selection differs
systematically across worker-firm pairs. Observed sorting patterns thus provide independent
empirical validation of our model’s key mechanism, systematic selection, which simultane-
ously explains both assortative matching and the shape of average log wages.
14

===== PDF PAGE 16 =====

3.3 Estimation
In this section we use our model to explore whether “conventionally estimated firm-specific
pay premiums predict the wage changes associated with exogenously induced job accessions
and separations” (Card, Cardoso, Heining and Kline, 2018, p. S16).5 We have already
answered part of that question: equation (26) shows that the difference between the firm
component of wages for the same worker at two different types of firms, ψ ψ , is equal
y∗
1 −
y∗
2
to the differential ATT at those two firms, after accounting for discounting and separations.
Here we show that conventionally estimated firm-specific pay premiums are unbiased, and
in some cases consistent, estimators of the difference in the firm component of wages. Hence
firm-specific pay premium do predict the wage change from accessions conditional on the
worker and firm agreeing to match. But since the ITT differs systematically from the ATT,
such pay premiums do not predict the expected value of a meeting between a worker and
firm.
Toestablishtheseclaimsformally, weimaginealargeadministrativepaneldatasetwhich
records the wage of many workers over the course of two or more years. In particular, for
each worker i and year t, the data set records a single wage w and a single employer
i,t i,t
J
for worker i. The underlying data generating process comes from our model with a Pareto
distribution of the idiosyncratic shock.6 In this section we ask what standard estimators
would yield in this environment.
First, consider an omniscient econometrician who knows the types of all workers and
firms. He uses OLS to estimate
¯
w = α¯ +ψ +e . (29)
i,t xi yJi,t i,t
Proposition 2 tells us that this equation is correctly specified when the dependent variable
is the wage level. Hence it yields unbiased estimates of the worker and firm components of
wages, up to an additive constant: E (αˆ¯ ) = α κ and E (ψ ˆ¯ ) = ψ +κ, where α and ψ are
x x∗
−
y y∗ x∗ y∗
defined in equation (29) and κ can be any constant. As is well-known, the constant arises
because the econometrician can lower the estimates of all the worker effects by κ and raise
5Card, Heining and Kline (2013), Abowd, McKinney and Schmutte (2019), and others call the assump-
tionsneededforanaffirmativeanswertothisquestion“exogenousmobility.” Section3inKline(2024)care-
fully lays out these conditions. Our model violates strict exogeneity because worker i’s error term in period
t depends on the firm they work at. For example, if worker i would have been exogenously induced to work
at a firm j with idiosyncratic shock z <z¯ in period t, the error term would have been negative.
xi,yj
6In Appendix C.3, we describe how we generate data sets with a finite number of workers and firms
from our model structure. Our approach allows firms to have multiple workers, with systematic differences
inemploymentlevelsacrossemployers. Hereweassumethatallworkersandfirmsbelongtoaconnectedset
and, when needed, to a leave-one-out connected set (Kline, Saggio and Sølvsten, 2020).
15

===== PDF PAGE 17 =====

the estimates of all the firm effects by κ without affecting the model fit. For many purposes,
this indeterminacy is irrelevant; for example, it does not effect estimates of the difference
¯ ¯
between two firm components ψ ψ , nor does it affect estimates of the variance of the
yj1
−
yj2
firm component σ2 .
ψ∗
We next turn to the problem faced by a real-world econometrician who cannot observe
workers’ or firms’ types, but insteadobserves their identifiers. The real-world econometrician
thus estimates a fixed effect for each worker and each firm, the standard Abowd, Kramarz
and Margolis (1999) regression in levels:
w = α +ψ +ε . (30)
i,t i i,t i,t
J
Again, it is well-known that OLS in this setup gives unbiased estimates of the worker and
firm components of wages, up to the same indeterminate additive constant, E (αˆ ) = α κ
i x∗
i −
and E (ψ ˆ ) = ψ +κ.
j y∗
j
The important difference between the real-world and omniscient econometrician arises
when we study consistency of these estimators, or alternatively estimates of the variance of
the worker and firm components of wages. Consider a large data set with many workers
and firms but a fixed number of worker and firm types. For the omniscient econometrician,
the number of parameters is equal to the number of types, and so is fixed as the number
of workers and firms grows. This means that under standard regularity conditions, αˆ¯ and
x
ˆ¯
ψ are not only unbiased estimates of α and ψ (up to the additive constant), but also
y x∗ y∗
consistent estimates of them.
In contrast, for the real-world econometrician, the number of parameters is equal to the
number of workers plus firms, and so grows with the size of the data set. This means that the
ˆ
asymptotic variances of the estimates αˆ and ψ are positive. As a result, the sample variance
i j
of ψ ˆ across firms is equal to the variance of the firm component, σ2 , plus the variance of
j ψ∗
ˆ
the error in the parameter estimate ψ ψ . This leads a na¨ıve real-world econometrician
j
−
y∗
j
to overestimate the variance of the firm component of wages σ2 .
ψ∗
Econometricians have at least two solutions to this problem. The first, proposed by
Bonhomme,LamadonandManresa(2019),istouseak-meansalgorithmtoclassifyfirmsinto
types in an initial step.7 Proposition B1 in their paper shows that under certain conditions,
this approach correctly classifies firms up to an arbitrary labeling of types. In this case, we
can estimate equation (29) in first differences, using only those workers who switch employer
7A related possibility is that the real-world econometrician observes y , say the firm’s industry, but not
j
the worker’s type x . This is equivalent to the approach in the inter-industry wage differentials literature
i
(Gibbons and Katz, 1992).
16

===== PDF PAGE 18 =====

type between years t and t+1:
¯ ¯
w w = ψ ψ +ε ε . (31)
i,t+1
−
i,t yJi,t+1
−
yJi,t i,t+1
−
i,t
This drops all the worker fixed effects and yields unbiased estimates of the firm component of
wages up to the same indeterminate constant, E (ψ ˆ¯ ) = ψ +κ. In particular, this procedure
y y∗
estimates the difference in the firm components of wages consistently when the number
of firm types is fixed but the number of workers who switch firms types goes to infinity:
ˆ¯ ˆ¯
ψ ψ ψ ψ .
y1
−
y2
→
y∗
1 −
y∗
2
Second, Kline, Saggio and Sølvsten (2020) propose a bias reduction method which yields
consistent estimates of the variance of the firm component of wages, σˆ2 σ2 .8 Like
ψ → ψ∗
Bonhomme, Lamadon and Manresa (2019), this approach uses a short panel with only two
years of data for each worker.
In summary, if this simple model is the data generating process, it may be possible to
estimate the difference in the firm component of wages, or at least the variance of the firm
component, consistently. This means that if we have consistent estimates of the discount
and separation rates, we can recover the differential ATT, or at least the variance in the
ATT across firms, consistently.
On the other hand, the wage regressions do not directly tell us the ITT since they do
not tell us the likelihood that a meeting results in a match,
(cid:0)z¯x,y (cid:1)
−
θ
. Of course, one may be
z0
able to recover this probability by structurally estimating the model, but we cannot recover
the ITT (or the differential ITT or the variance of the ITT) by examining “conventionally
estimated firm-specific pay premiums” alone.
3.4 Log Wages
To this point, we have discussed the behavior of wages. Since Abowd, Kramarz and Mar-
golis (1999), authors have regressed log wages, not the level of wages, on worker and firm
fixed effects. There are several reasons why we present our results in terms of the level of
wages. Most importantly, our model tells us that the wages are additively separable in levels
(Proposition 2), not in logs, and so we should run the regression that way. Additionally, in
Appendix D, we use Veneto data to run the two-way fixed effects regression in both levels
and logs. We show that the results are extremely similar. There are no policy conclusions
8For much of their analysis, Kline, Saggio and Sølvsten (2020) assume that the residual in the wage
regression (30) is independently and identically distributed over time for a given worker. This is assumption
is violated in our model. However, their estimates of the variance of the firm component of wages and
the covariance between the worker and firm components are unbiased even when the residual is serially
correlated; see Remark 4 in Kline, Saggio and Sølvsten (2020), p. 1870.
17

===== PDF PAGE 19 =====

onewoulddrawfromonespecificationbutrejectfromtheother. Andfinally, whilethemodel
is analytically tractable in levels because it is additively separable, we show in Section 6 that
our results are quantitatively similar in levels and logs.
Here we show that monotonicity of the wage in worker and firm type, if not additive
separability, carry over to the log specification. Define the average log wage in an (x,y)
match as
(cid:82)
w z¯ ∞ x,y logW x,y (z)g(z)dz .
x∗,y
≡ 1 G(z¯ )
xy
−
The average log wage is of considerable empirical interest. Bonhomme, Lamadon and Man-
resa (2019) prove that under certain conditions, the average log wage is identified in admin-
istrative wage data. They also estimate it using Swedish data and find that the average log
wage is increasing in worker and firm type and perhaps slightly submodular, meaning that
the lowest type workers get a slightly larger increase in their log wage by moving to more
productive jobs. Here we show how it behaves in our model with a Pareto distribution of
shocks:
Proposition 3 Assume z has a Pareto distribution with scale parameter z , 0 < z <
0 0
min z¯ , and shape parameter θ > 1. Then
x,y x,y
(cid:90)
w = ∞ log (cid:0) w¯ +γ(w¯ +π¯ )q (cid:1) θ(1+q) θ 1dq. (32)
x∗,y x x y − −
0
In particular,
1. for all x and x with w¯ < w¯ , w < w for all y;
1 2 x1 x2 x∗ 1,y x∗ 2,y
2. for all y and y with π¯ < π¯ , w < w for all x;
1 2 y1 y2 x∗,y1 x∗,y2
3. for all x , x , y , and y with w¯ < w¯ and π¯ < π¯ , w +w > w +w .
1 2 1 2 x1 x2 y1 y2 x∗ 1,y2 x∗ 2,y1 x∗ 1,y1 x∗ 2,y2
In particular, if f is strictly increasing, the average log wage is strictly increasing and
x,y
strictly submodular.
Our proof in Appendix A.2 allows for any transformation H of the wage, not just the
log. The average H wage is strictly submodular for a concave transformation of the wage,
strictlysupermodularforaconvextransformationofthewageand, aswehavealreadyshown,
additively separable without any transformation.
18

===== PDF PAGE 20 =====

4 Assortative Matching
This section shows that our model can generate (positively) assortative matching between
workers and firms. We only use two equations from our model. The first in the steady state
¯
equation (13), which explains how the measure of matches ϕ depends on both meeting
x,y
rates and the selection threshold z¯ . The second is again the selection equation (6).
x,y
¯
We find conditions under which ϕ satisfies a strong notion of assortative matching, the
monotone likelihood ratio order. We say that ϕ ¯ has the monotone likelihood ratio order if
for all x < x and y < y ,
1 2 1 2
¯ ¯
ϕ ϕ
x2,y2
>
x1,y2.
¯ ¯
ϕ ϕ
x2,y1 x1,y1
This means that high type workers are relatively more likely to match with high type firms.
Manipulating the fractions, we find that this is equivalent to stating that high type firms
are relatively more likely to match with high type workers. A well-known implication of
the monotone likelihood ratio order is that higher type workers and firms have a better
distribution of match partners in the sense of first order stochastic dominance and that the
correlation between the types of matched workers and firms is strictly positive.
We first find conditions for assortative matching between high productivity workers and
firms:
Proposition 4 Assume z has a Pareto distribution with scale parameter z , 0 < z <
0 0
min z¯ , and shape parameter θ > 1. Also assume f is strictly increasing and weakly
x,y x,y x,y
log-supermodular. Then the measure of matches ϕ ¯ has the monotone likelihood ratio order.
The proof is in Appendix A.3. Weak log-supermodularity of f is equivalent to f f
x1,y1 x2,y2
≥
f f for all x < x and y < y . Since f is strictly positive, it is a statement that
x1,y2 x2,y1 1 2 1 2
more productive workers have a weak comparative advantage working at more productive
firms (f /f is nondecreasing in x when y > y ) and that more productive firms have a
x,y2 x,y1 2 1
weak comparative advantage hiring more productive workers (f /f is nondecreasing in
x2,y x1,y
y when x > x ).
2 1
Lemma 1 and equation (22) tells us that if f is strictly increasing, then worker wage
x,y
components and firm wage components are strictly increasing as well. Propositions 4 then
implies that when f is strictly increasing and weakly log-supermodular, high wage are more
likely to have high wage partners in the sense of first order stochastic dominance. That is,
we have found conditions not only for assortative matching of more productive workers to
more productive firms, but also of high wage workers to high wage firms.
Intheintroductionofourpaper, wenotedthepuzzleraisedbyBonhomme, Lamadonand
Manresa (2019, p. 701): “the presence of strong sorting, together with the absence of strong
19

===== PDF PAGE 21 =====

complementarities in wages, is difficult to reconcile with models where sorting is driven by
complementarities in production, as in Becker (1973).” Propositions 2 and 4 provide the
reconciliation, selection. Administrative wage data only capture the wage that a firm pays
toitsemployees. Suchdatasetsdonothaveinformationaboutmeetingsthatdonotresultin
matches, i.e. about wage offers that are below the worker’s reservation wage or unacceptable
to the firm. According to our model, low wage workers rarely get wage offers from high
wage firms, and so rarely match there; but when such wage offers do materialize, our model
predicts that the average wage is higher than at a low productivity firm.
5 Endogenous Separations
In this section, we extend our basic model to allow for endogenous separations by allowing
match specific productivity to vary over time within a match. We show that most of our
analytical results carry over from the basic model to this framework. In particular, we prove
the same log-supermodularity conditions ensures positive assortative matching. In addition,
we prove that wages are additively separable into a component that depends on the worker
type, a component that depends on the firm type, and a heteroskedastic error term.
At the same time, we establish additional selection biases in the two-way fixed effects
regression. We prove that with endogenous separations, feasible estimators of the two-way
fixed effects model, including the ones proposed by Bonhomme, Lamadon and Manresa
(2019) and Kline, Saggio and Sølvsten (2020), yield biased estimates of the variance of the
firm component of wages. The source of the bias is again selection. As is well-known, firm
wage components are identified from the wage changes of movers, those workers who switch
employers. This will identify the firm component of wages only if the wage change of movers
reflectsthebroaderwagedifferentialsamongstayers. Thiswastrueinthebasicmodel, where
all workers were equally likely to move, but is no longer true with endogenous separations.
We show that bias in estimates of the firm wage component may be quantitatively large, yet
difficult to detect using the exogenous mobility test proposed by Card, Heining and Kline
(2013) and widely implemented in the literature. Finally, we discuss how one could try to
construct a data set that would consistently estimate the firm wage component, as well why
doing so is impractical.
The biases emanating from endogenous selection add on to the issues with estimating
treatment effects. As in the basic model, an econometrician with access to administrative
wage data cannot recover the ITT both because the econometric approach looks only on
wages that are acceptable to the worker and because of the unidentified constant κ. But
now, only the omniscient econometrician who knows the types of all workers and firms can
20

===== PDF PAGE 22 =====

consistently estimate the differential ATT from a policy that matches unemployed workers to
different types of jobs. Feasible estimators of the two-way fixed effects model, including the
ones proposed by Bonhomme, Lamadon and Manresa (2019) and Kline, Saggio and Sølvsten
(2020), yield biased estimates of the differential ATT.
5.1 Model and Key Results
We change only one piece of our model: We assume that for every worker i with type x and
i
every firm j with type y , match-specific productivity z (t) follows a geometric Brownian
j i,j
motion,
dz (t) = µz (t)dt+σz (t)dB(t), (33)
i,j i,j i,j
with drift µ < 0, standard deviation σ > 0, and reflecting barrier at some z > 0. A standard
0
resultfromstochasticcalculustellsusthatthestationarydistributionofz (t)isParetowith
i,j
shape parameter θ = 1 2µ > 1 and lower bound z . We assume that from the perspective
− σ2 0
of any worker i, the distribution of z (t) across all firms j at any point in time t is in fact
i,j
Pareto, and similarly from the perspective of any firm j.
Worker i and firm j meet as in the baseline model. When they meet, they observe z (t)
i,j
anddecidewhethertoformthematch. Byconstruction, atthemomentofthemeeting, z (t)
i,j
has a Pareto distribution with shape parameter θ. If they match, the produce z (t)f
i,j ′ xi,yj
at time t. Wages are set so that the worker keeps a fraction γ of the match surplus at
′
each point in time, consistent with continual wage renegotiation under the Nash bargaining
solution. The match ends endogenously by mutual agreement of the worker and firm, when
it is not sufficiently productive. It also ends exogenously at rate δ. Even after the match
ends, the match-specific productivity z (t) continues to evolve according to (33), but the
i,j
worker and firm almost surely never meet again.
We write down the equations characterizing an equilibrium and simplify them in Ap-
pendix B. Here we give some key results. First, worker i of type x and firm j of type y
i j
form a match and stay matched if and only if z (t) z¯ , where the threshold satisfies
i,j
≥
xi,yj
(cid:18) (cid:19)
ξ +θ 1 w¯ +π¯
x y
z¯ − . (34)
x,y
≡ ξ +θ f
x,y
Here w¯ is the flow value of a type-x unemployed worker, π¯ is the flow value of a type-y
x y
vacancy, and
(cid:32)(cid:114) (cid:33)
1 8(r+δ)
ξ +θ2 θ (35)
≡ 2 σ2 −
is a positive constant.
21

===== PDF PAGE 23 =====

To understand the threshold equation, fix θ and take the limit as σ 0. Equation (35)
→
implies ξ . Thus equation (34) reduces to equation (6) in this limit. But for any σ > 0,
→ ∞
ξ is a finite positive constant and so 0 < ξ+θ 1 < 1. This means that for productivity
−
ξ+θ
slightly above the separation threshold z¯ , flow output zf is less than the flow value
x,y x,y
unemployment plus the flow value of a vacancy w¯ + π¯ . The willingness to stay matched
x y
even when there is a static gain from breaking up reflects the option value of continuing a
match when productivity is stochastic.
Second, the measure of (x,y) matches satisfies
δaϕ ¯ = ρu v zθz¯ θ, (36)
x,y x y 0 x−,y
where
(cid:32)(cid:114) (cid:33)
1 8δ
ζ +θ2 θ (37)
≡ 2 σ2 −
and
1
δa σ2(ζ +θ)2 (38)
≡ 2
is the sum of the exogenous separation rate δ and the endogenous separation rate 1σ2θ(ζ+θ)
2
that comes from matches ending when productivity hits the separation threshold.
Equation (36) has the same mathematical structure as equation (13) for the Pareto case,
and so it follows that the assortative matching results are completely unchanged by the
presence of idiosyncratic shocks to match-specific productivity:
Proposition 5 Assume z (t) follows the geometric Brownian motion in equation (33),
i,j
µ = σ2 (1 θ) < 0 < σ, with reflecting barrier z satisfying 0 < z < min z¯ . Also assume
2 − 0 0 x,y x,y
f is strictly increasing and weakly log-supermodular. Then the measure of matches ϕ ¯ has
x,y
the monotone likelihood ratio order.
¯
The proof, essentially unchanged from the proof of Proposition 4, is in Appendix B.4: ϕ has
the monotone likelihood ratio order if and only if it is strictly log-supermodular. From equa-
¯
tion (36), ϕ is strictly log-supermodular if and only if z¯ is strictly log-submodular. And
x,y x,y
from equation (34), strict log-submodularity of z¯ follows from weak log-supermodularity
x,y
of f and strict monotonicity of w¯ and π¯ , which are in turn assured by strict monotonicity
x,y x y
of f.
Third, we find that the share of the stock of (x,y) matches with z < qz¯ for any
x,y
threshold q 1 is
≥
ζ +θ θ
Φ(q) = 1 q θ + q ζ θ, (39)
− − −
− ζ ζ
22

===== PDF PAGE 24 =====

5
4
3
2
1
0
1 1.2 1.4 1.6 1.8 2
z/z¯
x,y
ytisned
new matches
all matches
Figure 1: The red line shows the stationary density of z/z¯ in all new matches (Pareto with
x,y
shape parameter θ), while the blue line shows the same object for all matches ϕ(q) = Φ(q)
′
defined in equation (39). The figure sets σ = 0.025, δ = 0.2, and θ = 5.
the same for all (x,y) pairs. The fact that all (x,y) pairs have the same distribution of
the ratio z/z¯ is a property of the Pareto distribution of z/z¯ in new matches and the
x,y x,y
geometric Brownian motion of z/z¯ in surviving matches.
x,y
The functional form of distribution Φ(q) and associated density ϕ(q) = Φ(q) will play
′
an important role in our analysis, and so we show the density in Figure 1. Notably, the
continuous process of ending bad matches shifts the distribution of surviving matches to
the right compared to the Pareto distribution of new matches. In particular, endogenous
separations at the threshold implies it acts as an absorbing barrier for productivity, so
ϕ(1) = 0. How important selection is depends on ζ, defined in equation (37). When ζ is
large, as is the case if δ is large (so selection has little time to operate before an exogenous
breakdown) or σ is small (so productivity is nearly constant in a match), then the two
distributions are very similar. At the opposite extreme, when ζ 0, the mean of z in all
→
matches is (θ/(θ 1))2 times the threshold, while the mean of z in new matches is just
−
θ/(θ 1) times the threshold.
−
Finally, we show that the wage equation (9) carries over to this environment unchanged.
Using the threshold equation (36), this gives us a simple expression for the wage when a
23

===== PDF PAGE 25 =====

type x worker is employed at a type y job in a match with productivity z at a point in time:
(cid:18)(cid:18) (cid:19) (cid:19)
ξ +θ 1 z
W (z) = w¯ +γ − 1 (w¯ +π¯ ). (40)
x,y x x y
ξ +θ z¯ −
x,y
Since the distribution of z/z¯ is Φ(q) for all (x,y), this leads to our next result, a natural
x,y
generalization of Proposition 2, expressing wages as an additively separable function of a
worker component, a firm component, and an error term:
Proposition 6 Assume z (t) follows the geometric Brownian motion in equation (33),
i,j
µ = σ2 (1 θ) < 0 < σ, with reflecting barrier z satisfying 0 < z < min z¯ . Let ω (t)
2 − 0 0 x,y x,y i,j
denote the wage that worker i receives while employed by firm j at time t. Then
ω (t) = α +ψ +ϵ (t) (41)
i,j x∗
i
y∗
j
i,j
where
(cid:18) (cid:19)
ξ +θ 1
α (1+C )w¯ ; ψ C π¯ ; ϵ (t) γ − (w¯ +π¯ )ν (t); (42)
x∗
≡
∗ x y∗
≡
∗ y i,j
≡ ξ +θ
xi yj i,j
ν (t) is a serially correlated random variable, independently and identically distributed across
i,j
(i,j) pairs, with mean zero and a known stationary distribution; and
(cid:18) (cid:19)
θ(ζ +θ)(ξ +θ 1)
C γ − 1 . (43)
∗
≡ (θ 1)(ξ +θ)(ζ +θ 1) −
− −
The proof is in Appendix B.4 and gives the stationary distribution of ν (t). In the limit
i,j
withoutdiscounting(r 0),wehaveξ = ζ fromequations(35)and(37). Thenequation(43)
→
implies C = γ , exactly as in Proposition 2.
∗ θ 1
−
5.2 Treatment Effects
We turn next to treatment effects. We again consider a policy which introduces an unem-
ployedworkeritoajobj. Sinceweknowthatselection-on-gainsmakesitdifficulttomeasure
the intent-to-treat even without endogenous separations, we focus here on the ATT, the ex-
pected value of a worker’s surplus conditional on the match being acceptable, z z¯ . In
≥
xi,yj
the model with endogenous separations, we find that a type x worker’s share of surplus when
matched to a type y firm with current idiosyncratic shock z is
 
w¯ +π¯ ξ (cid:0) z (cid:1) + (cid:0) z (cid:1) − ξ
γVs (z) = γ x y  z¯x,y z¯x,y 1.
x,y r+δ ξ +1 −
24

===== PDF PAGE 26 =====

The ATT is the expected value of this in a new match, i.e. one where z is drawn from a
Pareto distribution:
ξ(w¯ +π¯ ) γ w¯ +π¯
x y x y
ATT (y) = γ = . (44)
x (r+δ)(θ 1)(θ+ξ) θ 1 1σ2(θ+ξ)2
− − 2
Again define ∆ATT (j ,j ) ATT (j ) ATT (j ). We see immediately from equation (44)
i 1 2 i 1 i 2
≡ −
that the differential ATT is still the same for all workers.
In the limiting economy without discounting, r 0, recall that C = γ and ξ = ζ.
→ ∗ θ 1
−
Thus equations (38) and (42) imply
ψ ψ
∆ATT (y ,y ) =
y∗
1 −
y∗
2, (45)
x 1 2 δa
where δa is the rate that employed workers become unemployed. Since the omniscient econo-
metrician estimates the numerator consistently, and since we can easily recover δa from
worker flow data, the omniscient econometrician consistently estimates the differential ATT,
at least in the no-discounting limit. That is, the close link between the ATT and the firm
component of wages is unchanged by the separation shock.
5.3 Two-Way Fixed Effects Regressions
We turn next to what happens when an econometrician regresses wages on worker and firm
fixed effects. We focus on the estimated firm effects because these are relevant to the firm
component of wages and hence the ATT, as seen in equation (45).
We again start with an omniscient econometrician who knows the types of all workers
and firms, where the number of types is held fixed as we increase the number of observations.
Rather than regressing on individual fixed effects, he regresses on type-specific fixed effects,
using OLS to estimate
¯
w = α¯ +ψ +e . (46)
i,t xi yJi,t i,t
Proposition 6 implies that using either cross-sectional or panel data, his estimate of the firm
fixed effects satisfy
E(cid:0)
ψ
ˆ¯ (cid:1)
= ψ + κ, where κ is a constant reflecting the standard lack of
y y∗
identification of the level of the worker and firm wage components. Thus the omniscient
econometrician’s estimates of the firm fixed effects reveal the difference in, and variance of,
the firm wage components.
We now turn to a real-world econometrician who cannot observe workers’ and firms’
types, and so instead regresses wages on worker and firm fixed effects. In many practical
situations, the econometrician has only a short panel, and indeed important recent papers
25

===== PDF PAGE 27 =====

focus on data sets with only two years of data (e.g., Bonhomme, Lamadon and Manresa,
2019; Kline, Saggio and Sølvsten, 2020). Here we ask what the econometrician estimates in
that case. The following Lemma provides a useful step towards that answer:
Lemma 2 Consider a panel data set with observations of wages w and employers for
i,t i,t
J
a large number of workers i and at least two years. A worker is a mover in year t, i ,
t
∈ M
if = . Assume that for all i , Ew = α +ψ and Ew = α+ +ψ+ .
J i,t ̸ J i,t+1 ∈ M t i,t i− − i,t i,t+1 i i,t+1
J J
Also assume that for all i , j , and j , the worker is as likely to move from firm j
t 1 2 1
∈ M
to j as from firm j to j . Then the OLS estimate of the two-way fixed effects regression
2 2 1
w = α +ψ +ε using only two years of data satisfies
i,t i Ji,t i,t
ψ +ψ+
E (ψ ˆ ) = j− j +κ, (47)
j
2
where κ is an arbitrary constant, independent of j.
An immediate corollary of this result is that, under the assumptions of Lemma 2, the ex-
pected value of the estimated firm fixed effect E (ψ ˆ ) is equal to the expected value of the
j
ψ−+ψ+
firm component of wages (up to the additive constant κ) if and only if j j = ψ .
2 y∗ j
Our main result in this section is that our model satisfies the assumptions of Lemma 2,
ψ−+ψ+
but violates j j = ψ . This means that the real-world econometrician’s estimated firm
2 y∗ j
effects are biased estimates of the firm component of wages. We stress that this is not about
the unindentified constant κ, but holds when looking at the expected difference between two
firms’ estimated fixed effects or at the variance of expected firms fixed effects.
Tounderstandthebias, westartbyexplainingwhyourmodelsatisfiestheassumptionsof
Lemma 2. First, the wage in an (x,y) match depends on z/z¯ according to equation (40).
x,y
Moreover, the distribution of z/z¯ before the move is the same for all (x,y), as is the
x,y
distribution of z/z¯ after the move. This means that the expected wage in these jobs is
x,y
additively separable between a worker and a firm component. Second, all workers are as
likely to accept a job at firm j , endogenously or exogenously lose their job, and then accept
1
a job at firm j , as to take the two jobs in the opposite sequence. Thus we are in the realm
2
of Lemma 2.
We turn next to whether the real-world econometrician’s estimate of firm wage compo-
nents is biased. To answer this, we need to take a stance on what the wage in new and old
jobs is. To be concrete, we suppose that we can measure movers’ wages immediately before
(w ) and immediately after (w ) a move. This leads to the following result:
i,t i,t+1
Proposition 7 Assume z follows the geometric Brownian motion in equation (33), µ =
i,j
σ2 (1 θ) < 0 < σ, with reflecting barrier z satisfying 0 < z < min z¯ . Consider a data
2 − 0 0 x,y x,y
26

===== PDF PAGE 28 =====

set containing the last wage in the old job and the first wage in the new job for all movers.
Let ψ ˆ denote the OLS estimate of the firm effect from the two-way fixed effects regression
j
w = α +ψ +ε . Then for all firms j and j ,
i,t i Ji,t i,t 1 2
E(cid:0)
ψ
ˆ
ψ
ˆ (cid:1)
= B
(cid:0)
ψ ψ
(cid:1)
, (48)
j1
−
j2
×
y∗
j1 −
y∗
j2
where B < 1 depends only on r, δ, σ, and θ. For small σ, B = 1 θσ to a first order.
− √2δ
In what follows, we call B < 1 the bias in estimating the firm component of wages.
The proof in appendix B.4 proceeds in a few steps. First, according to our model, the
last wage before the move can come from one of two densities, depending on whether the
separation is exogenous or endogenous. For an exogenous separation, which occurs at rate δ,
z/z¯ is drawn from the blue density in Figure 1, the density of z/z¯ in existing matches.
x,y x,y
For an endogenous separation, which occurs at rate 1σ2θ(ζ +θ), z/z¯ is degenerate at 1.
2 x,y
Using this and the wage equation (40), we prove in Appendix B.4 that, in the notation of
Lemma 2, α = (1+C )π¯ and ψ = C π¯ , where
j− − yj j− − yj
(cid:18) (cid:19)
ζξ(ζ +2θ 1) θ(θ 1)2
C γ − − − . (49)
−
≡ (θ 1)(ζ +θ)(ξ +θ)(ζ +θ 1)
− −
In the second step, we turn to turn to the wage immediately after the move. In this case,
z/z¯ hasaParetodistributionwithminimumvalue1, thereddensityinFigure1. Usingthis
x,y
and the wage equation (40), we prove that this implies α+ = (1+C+)π¯ and ψ = C+π¯ ,
j yj j− yj
where
(cid:18) (cid:19)
ξ
C+ γ . (50)
≡ (θ 1)(ξ +θ)
−
Putting this together, Lemma 2 implies E (ψ ˆ ) = C−+C+ π¯ + κ, and so E(cid:0) ψ ˆ ψ ˆ (cid:1) =
j 2 yj j1 − j2
C−+C+
(π¯ π¯ ). Using equation (42), we also know ψ ψ = C (π¯ π¯ ). This gives
2 yj1 − yj2 y∗ 1− y∗ 2 ∗ y1− y2
us equation (48) as well as our formula for the bias, B
C−+C+
.
≡ 2C∗
As we can anticipate from the expressions for C , C , and C+ in equations (43), (49),
∗ −
and (50), the expression for B is messy. Here we offer a simpler expression in the limit
without discounting, where ξ = ζ:
θ(2ζ +3θ 1)
B = 1 − . (51)
− 2(ζ +θ)2
This is increasing in ζ, hence increasing in δ and decreasing in σ (equation 37). Intuitively,
B is smaller (there is more bias) when exogenous breakdowns are less frequent, so selection
plays a bigger role in determining who switches jobs and also in determining the wage of
27

===== PDF PAGE 29 =====

1
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.6
0 0.01 0.02 0.03 0.04 0.05
σ
S
noitceleS
dna
B
saiB
Bias B
Selection S
Figure 2: The blue line is the bias B from OLS estimation of the firm component of wages
in a two period panel, E (ψ ˆ ) = Bψ +κ. Note that B = 1 corresponds to no bias. The red
j y∗
j
line S is power of the selection test in Card, Heining and Kline (2013), with S = 1 implying
that the wage gains of workers going from j to j equals the wage loss of workers going from
1 2
j to j . The figure sets r = 0.05, δ = 0.2, and θ = 5.
2 1
stayers, the blue distribution in Figure 1. Similarly, there is more bias when the standard
deviation of the idiosyncratic shock is bigger, for the same reason: it enhances the selection
of which matches end and raises the wage in those that survive.
The blue line in Figure 2 depicts the bias graphically. We see that when σ = 0, the bias
disappears (B = 1), but even a small amount of variation in σ creates a noticeable bias,
consistent with the first order approximation B = 1 θσ .
− √2δ
The econometric approaches in Bonhomme, Lamadon and Manresa (2019) and Kline,
Saggio and Sølvsten (2020) are designed to address an incidental parameters problem, not
this selection bias. For example, even if the k-means step in Bonhomme, Lamadon and
Manresa (2019) correctly identifies firm types, they still estimate firm type effects using
only movers, and so their estimate of the firm component of wages is biased down by B.
Similarly, the bias reduction procedure in Kline, Saggio and Sølvsten (2020) gives a bias-
corrected estimate of the variance of the firm component of wages σ2 equal to B2 times the
ψ∗
true variance.9
To obtain unbiased estimates of the firm component of wages, we need a different data
set. If we observed two complete employment spells for each worker, we could use data on
9Theseclaimsareconsistentwiththepropositionsinthosepapersandwehaveverifiedtheminnumerical
examples.
28

===== PDF PAGE 30 =====

all the wages in the two jobs. Using OLS on the resulting data set would give us unbiased
estimates of ψ , up to the additive constant κ. The problem is that in real-world data,
y∗
j
we are unlikely to be able to observed two complete employment spells for each worker.
Some workers are lucky and keep a job for a long time. Those workers typically experience
unusually high values for their idiosyncratic shock and hence unusually high wage growth.
Dropping these workers will reintroduce selection bias. Still, we expect that using longer
panels will mitigate, albeit not eliminate, selection bias.
5.4 Testing for Selection Bias
Selection in which matches form violates the exogenous mobility assumption (Card, Heining
and Kline, 2013; Abowd, McKinney and Schmutte, 2019; Kline, 2024), and hence leads
to biased estimates of the ITT. Moreover, selection of which matches end leads to further
violations of exogenous mobility, and hence biased estimates of the firm component of wages
and the ATT. Of course, researchers have long recognized these possibilities and have sought
to test for selection in the data.
Testing and correcting for selection requires some sort of exclusion restriction, but un-
fortunately there is no obvious ones in this environment. Instead, researchers have come up
indirect tests looking for evidence of particular types of selection. Here we use our model
as a laboratory for evaluating the power of one popular test, the event study proposed by
Card, Heining and Kline (2013). They looked at whether the wage gains of workers who
move from one establishment to another are equal in magnitude and opposite in sign to the
wage gains of workers who move in the opposite direction. They argue that this would not
be the case in models where workers select which jobs to take based on the wage. Card,
Heining and Kline (2013) and subsequent research by these authors find remarkable support
for the “equal in magnitude and opposite in sign” prediction.
We just argued that according to our model, the expected wage of a type x worker
at the moment before they leave a type y firm, either endogenously or exogenously is
1
(1+C )w¯ +C π¯ , while the expected wage the moment after they start at a type y firm
− x − y1 2
is (1+C+)w¯ +C+π¯ . This means that the expected wage increase of a type x worker going
x y2
from a type y firm to a type y firm is
1 2
(C+ C )w¯ +C+π¯ C π¯ .
−
− x y2
−
− y1
For this to be equal in magnitude and opposite to the expected wage increase of the same
type of worker moving in the opposite direction, we require S C /C+ = 1. Put differently,
−
≡
the Card, Heining and Kline (2013) event study test effectively looks at whether the wage
29

===== PDF PAGE 31 =====

distribution of workers leaving a type y firm is the same as the wage distribution of those
going to this type of firm, which holds if and only if S = 1. In contrast, estimates of the
ATT are unbiased if and only if B
C++C−
= 1, where C is a third constant reflecting
≡ 2C∗ ∗
the true firm component of wages. Obviously B and S are different objects, and these are
different statements.
The exact expression for S is messy, but it simplifies in key cases. In particular, in the
limit without discounting, r 0 we have
→
σ2θ(θ 1)
S = 1 − .
− 2δ
This is also the second order approximation to S for small idiosyncratic shocks σ.
The fact that 1 B is a linear function of σ while 1 S is a quadratic function means
− −
that in an economy with a small idiosyncratic shock, the bias may be significant even if it is
hard to detect selection using the Card, Heining and Kline (2013) event study test. Figure 2
shows this by plotting B and S as functions of σ with r = 0.05, θ = 10, δ = 0.2. Setting
σ = 0.01 we find S = 0.98 but B = 0.85, leading to an 15 percent understatement of the
ATT and a 28 percent (1 B2) understatement of the variance of the firm component of
−
wages. We conclude that the event study test may fail to detect selection in data generated
from this model, even when it is quantitatively important.
5.5 Match Effects
Before closing this section, we stress one attractive feature of this model, that wages change
during an employment spell due to the evolution of the idiosyncratic shock. Moreover, since
workers will (almost surely) match at most once with a particular firm, there is no law of
large numbers to smooth out the average wage of the worker in the job. That is, if our model
is the data generating process, a data set constructed from it will (almost surely) contain
information from at most one interval of one realization of the stochastic process for z (t)
i,j
for any pair (i,j).
An interesting implication of this is that, using an approach like Woodcock (2008), an
econometrician would uncover evidence of not only worker effects α and firm effects ψ , but
i j
also match effects equal to the average value of ϵ (t) during the duration of the match. Here
i,j
theestimatedmatcheffectsrepresentaparticularrealizationofastochasticprocessforz (t),
i,j
however, and not some intrinsic characteristic of the worker-firm match. Unfortunately, we
cannot derive a simple analytical expression for the match effects, but one could estimate
them using model-generated data.
30

===== PDF PAGE 32 =====

6 Quantitative Evaluation
In this section, we explore the quantitative predictions of our model. Since we will solve
the model numerically, we are able to relax a few assumptions that allowed us to obtain
analytical results in the first part of the paper.
First, we previously assumed that workers only search while unemployed. In this section,
we extend the model with endogenous separations to allow for on-the-job search. We assume
that both employed and unemployed workers search for jobs. As before, unemployed workers
accept a job when it has a positive match surplus, while employed workers move to a new
job when it has a higher match surplus than their old job. Allowing for wage-induced job
mobilityisrealistic, butisoftenseenasbeingatoddswithobservedmobilitypatterns, where
workers often accept wage cuts. We show that our model generates realistic wage dynamics.
Second, our analytical results examined the behavior of the level of wages, rather than
log wages. The related empirical literature focuses on log wages. Since we are solving the
model numerically, here we too work with log wages. In the appendix we show that results
with the level of wages are similar.
Third, when evaluating bias in estimates of the ATT, we assumed that we measured the
last wage before a job separation and the first wage after a job accession. Here we again
follow the empirical literature and assume that we measure the average wage in the main
job in a calendar year and measures either earnings or average wage in that job. As we will
see, none of these more realistic assumptions change our main results.
6.1 Setup and Calibration
Themodelisthesameasthebaselinemodelwithendogenousseparations(Section5), butwe
nowassumethatworkerscanmeetvacanciesbothwhenemployedandwhenunemployed. An
unemployed worker i contacts a type-y vacancy according to a Poisson process with arrival
rateρ v , whileanemployedworkercontactsatype-y vacancyaccordingtoaPoissonprocess
0 y
with arrival rate ρ v , where ρ and ρ are positive constants. When the worker and firm
1 y 0 1
meet at time t, they observe z (t), which follows a geometric Brownian motion with drift
i,j
µ < 0, standard deviation σ > 0, and a reflecting lower boundary z > 0, as in the model
0
withendogenousseparations. Thisimpliesthatthewhenaworkermeetsafirm, productivity
is distributed Pareto with shape parameter θ = 1σ2(θ 1) and scale parameter z .
2 − 0
We assume that wages are set according to the competing offers framework in Cahuc,
Postel-Vinay and Robin (2006), with a natural extension to accommodate time-varying
match-specific productivity z (t). More precisely, an unemployed worker gets a share γ
i,j 0
of the surplus in a match. When a worker with surplus share γ meets a vacant job, he
31

===== PDF PAGE 33 =====

switches jobs if the surplus is higher in the new job than in the old one. In this case, his
surplus share adjusts to γ which leaves him indifferent between taking the new job with
′
surplus share γ versus keeping the old job and getting the entire surplus from it. If the
′
surplus in the old job is higher than in the new job offer, the worker stays in his current
job, but his surplus share may increase. This happens if he would prefer to take the new job
with all the surplus rather than stay in the old job at the old surplus share. We present the
full model in Appendix C.
Here we describe its parametrization and main results. Our parameterization is pre-
liminary, intended to illustrate how our analytical results carry over to this more realistic
environment and to illustrate wage dynamics in a model with ex ante heterogeneity, time-
varying match-specific shocks, and on-the-job search.
We set the discount rate to r = 0.05, and so think of a time unit as a year. The exogenous
match dissolution rate is δ = 0.2, which implies that the expected duration of employment,
absent endogenous separations, is 5 years. We set the number of types at X = Y = 10 and
assume equal measures of each type, so m = 1 and n = 1. This implies in particular
x X y Y
that the total measure of workers and firms are the same. The production function is
(cid:112)
f = (1+∆ )x 1(1+∆ )y 1, where ∆ and ∆ are numbers that govern the amount
x,y w − f − w f
of heterogeneity across workers and firms, respectively; we set ∆ = 0.15 and ∆ = 0.6.
w f
We normalize ρ = 1 and choose ρ = 0.1. Finally, we choose σ = 0.025 and the shape
0 1
parameter of Pareto distribution θ = 5. Using the stationary relationship between Pareto
distribution and geometric Brownian motion, this implies that µ = 0.00125.
−
6.2 Sorting, Wages, and Treatment Effects
This section begins our presentation of results from our model with on-the-job search. To
do so, we use the model to generate artificial data for a million workers. For each worker,
we construct a two-year sample where we record worker and firm identifiers and types, as
well as wages associated with these employment relationships; see Appendix C.3 for details
on data construction.
Ineachyear, weselectthemainjobbasedonhighesttotalearningsforthatcalendaryear,
and measure average wage in that job. Following the sample constructions in Bonhomme,
LamadonandManresa(2019)orKline, SaggioandSølvsten(2020), thetwoyearscorrespond
to years t and t+2, that is, we drop the intermediate year t+1. We focus on log wages but
report results for level of wages in the Appendix. In our sample, 97 percent of workers have
at least one wage observation in years t and t+2, and 81 percent have two.
Westartbyshowingaveragelogwageandsortingpatterns, analogoustoFigures2andS7
32

===== PDF PAGE 34 =====

Average log wage w x∗,y Share of worker types
1
1.5
0.8
1 0.6
0.4
0.5
0.2
0 0
2 4 6 8 10 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
firm type y firm type y
x = 1 x = 2 x = 3 x = 4 x = 5
x = 6 x = 7 x = 8 x = 9 x = 10
Figure 3: Average wages and distribution of worker types conditional on firm type in the
model with on-the-job. The left panel shows the average log wage w paid by different firms
x∗,y
for different worker types. Each line represents one worker type. The right panels show the
distribution of worker types x in firms with different firm types y.
in Bonhomme, Lamadon and Manresa (2019). Figure 8 in Appendix C shows similar pattern
for wages measured in levels. We stress that these results use the workers’ and firms’ actual
types, and so estimating them in model-generated data may not be feasible. We discuss
feasible estimators in Section 6.3.
The left panel of Figure 3 shows the average log wage as a function of firm type y. Each
line corresponds to a different worker type x. For the model without on-the-job search, we
proved in Proposition 6 that the average wage is increasing and additively separable in the
worker type x and the firm type y. In the model with on-the-job search, the average log
wages is increasing in x and y. Moreover, the fact that the lines are nearly parallel tells us
that the average log wage is nearly additively separable.
The right panel of Figure 3 shows the distribution of worker types in the different firm
types, ϕ
¯
/
(cid:80)X
ϕ
¯
. We observe that distribution satisfies the monotone likelihood ratio
x,y x′=1 x′,y
order, withhigh-typefirmssystematicallyemployingrelativelymorehigh-typeworkers. This
is again consistent with the theoretical prediction without on-the-job search (Proposition 5).
Wenextconsiderthetreatmenteffectfromapolicythatintroducesanunemployedworker
to a vacant type y job. We look at the impact of this event on the expected present value of
the worker’s income, the ITT, as a function of the worker’s type and the firm’s type. We also
look at the impact conditional on the worker taking the job, the ATT. In the model with
33

===== PDF PAGE 35 =====

Average Treatment on the Treated (ATT) Intent to Treat (ITT)
4 4
3 3
2 2
1 1
0 0
2 4 6 8 10 2 4 6 8 10
firm type y firm type y
x = 1 x = 2 x = 3 x = 4 x = 5
x = 6 x = 7 x = 8 x = 9 x = 10
Figure 4: Average treatment on the treated, ATT, and intent to treat, ITT, for an unem-
ployed worker with type x when meeting a firm with type y in the model with on-the-job
search. The left panel shows ATT, the right panel ITT. Each line represents one worker
type.
on-the-job search, the surplus of the match is the same as in the model without it, and hence
ATT (y)isgivenbyequation(44). Theintent-to-treatisthenITT (y) = ATT (y)(z /z¯ )θ,
x x x 0 x,y
as implied by equation (19).
Figure 4 reveals an important distinction between the ATT and ITT from this policy.
The highest worker type always has the highest ATT at a given type y firm. However, the
lowest worker type has the highest ITT at the lowest firm type and the lowest ITT at the
highest firm type. For the highest worker type, it is the opposite: they have the lowest
ITT at the lowest firm type and the highest at the highest firm type. In other words, when
meeting y = 1 firm, it is the lowest worker type x = 1 that benefits the most from such
meeting. When meeting the highest-type firm y = 10, it is the highest type worker, x = 10,
who benefits the most from this meeting.
Finally, we note that the relationship between the ATT and the firm component of
wages is quantitatively close to the one implied by the model without on-the-job search.
Setting ρ = 0 but keeping all other parameters unchanged, equations (42)–(44) imply that
1
∆ATTx(y1,y2) = 3.3. In the model with on-the-job search, this ratio varies between 3.4 and 3.7
ψ∗ ψ∗
y1− y2
depending on the worker type. We therefore conclude that firm component of wages remains
informative about ATT even in the model with on-the-job search.
34

===== PDF PAGE 36 =====

6.3 Bias in Estimating the Firm Component of Wages
The results so far assume that we are able to observe workers’ and firms’ true types x and
y. This section examines the bias coming from our inability to do so in real-world data sets,
as stressed in Section 5.3.
We focus on a regression of log wages on worker and firm fixed effects. To start, we
assume that we can observe the true types, and hence estimate the infeasible regression
¯
logw = α¯ +ψ +ε , (52)
i,t xi yJi,t i,t
recovering estimates αˆ¯ and ψ
ˆ¯
of the type-specific fixed effects, as well as estimates eˆ of
x y i,t
¯
the error term. We refer to α¯ and ψ as the worker and firm components of wages.
x y
We think this notion of the worker and firm component is natural for two reasons: first,
the econometrics literature on two-way fixed effects models has attempted to estimate these
objects, or at least their variance; and second, they correspond to the ATT from a natural
policy experiment. However, a real-world econometrician cannot run this regression because
he does not know the true worker and firm types.
Column (1) in Table 1 decomposes the variance of log wages using this specification. The
variance decomposition is simply
var(logw) = var(α)+var(ψ)+2cov(α,ψ)+var(ε),
(cid:99) (cid:99) (cid:99) (cid:99) (cid:99)
where var(α) is the variance of αˆ¯ in our sample, var(ψ) is the variance of ψ
ˆ¯
, cov(α,ψ) is
(cid:99) x (cid:99) y (cid:99)
the covariance between them in our sample, and var(ε) is the variance of the residual eˆ .
(cid:99) i,t
In our calibrated model, the worker component accounts for 41 percent of the variance of
wages, the firm component accounts for only 5 percent, (twice) the covariance accounts for
6 percent, and the remaining 48 percent comes from the residual.
In column (2), we consider an econometrician who knows the true firm types but observes
only the worker identifiers. For example, he may be able to use the k-means algorithm to
classify firms, as in Bonhomme, Lamadon and Manresa (2019).10 He thus estimates
¯
logw = α +ψ +ε . (53)
i,t i yJi,t i,t
With two years of data, the econometrician will effectively first difference the data to elim-
inate the worker fixed effects. This means that he only uses those workers who switch
employers between t and t+2 to estimate the firm component of wages.
10Here we ignore issues having to do with firm misclassification.
35

===== PDF PAGE 37 =====

(1) (2) (3) (4)
var(logw) 0.2758 0.2758 0.2758 0.2763
(cid:99)
var(α) 0.1431 0.2204 0.2320 0.2078
(cid:99)
var(ψ) 0.0147 0.0096 0.0226 0.0095
(cid:99)
cov(α,ψ) 0.0187 0.0174 0.0059 0.0173
(cid:99)
var(ε) 0.0806 0.0110 0.0094 0.0243
(cid:99)
corr(α,ψ) 0.4086 0.3768 0.0808 0.3887
(cid:100)
worker type observed yes no no no
firm type observed yes yes no no
method OLS OLS OLS KSS
no. of observations 1786 1786 1764 1560
no. of workers 975 975 962 780
no. of movers 542 542 271 261
no. of firms 51 51 45 35
Table 1: Quantification of biases in log wage variance decomposition in artificial data. We
use largest connected set for OLS, and largest leave-one-out connected set for KSS (Kline,
Saggio and Sølvsten, 2020). Numbers of observations, workers, movers and firms are in
thousands.
We find that estimating equation (53) rather than (52) reduces the estimated vari-
ance of the firm component considerable, by 35 percent. This is the selection bias, B =
(cid:112)
0.0096/0.0147 = 0.81. Additionally, the estimated variance of the worker component is
now higher than in column (1), due to overfitting of the large number of parameters. This
also leads to a reduction in the variance of the error term. Interestingly, these errors have
little effect on either the estimated covariance of the worker and firm components (decreases
from 0.0187 to 0.0174 or the correlation between them (drops from 0.41 to 0.38).
Next, we run the specification that a real-world econometrician could run, regressing log
wages on worker and firm fixed effects.
logw = α +ψ +ε . (54)
i,t i i,t i,t
J
ˆ
In column (3), we use the sample moments of the estimated fixed effects, αˆ and ψ , to com-
i j
pute estimates of variances and covariances of the worker and firm components of wages. It
is well-known that this estimator of second moments is biased due to the incidental param-
eters problem, often called limited mobility bias in this setting. This hugely overestimates
the variance of the worker and firm components and drives the covariance between them, as
well as the correlation, to zero.
In column (4), we use Kline, Saggio and Sølvsten (2020) estimator, which is designed to
correctforlimitedmobilitybias. Thisestimatorrequiresaleave-one-outconnectedset,sothe
36

===== PDF PAGE 38 =====

sample size is smaller than in column (3).11 As one would expect, we find the bias-correction
method delivers estimates of the variance of the firm component and the covariance between
the worker and firm components that are in line with column (2), not those in column (1).
That is, the Kline, Saggio and Sølvsten estimator corrects for limited mobility bias coming
from the fact that we need to estimate many firm fixed effects, but it does not correct for
the bias coming from endogenous separations.
We can also see that the estimates of the variance of the worker component in column
(4) are somewhat smaller than those in columns (2) and (3), but much larger than the
correct ones in column (1). The Kline, Saggio and Sølvsten (2020) estimator does not yield
consistent estimates of the variance of the worker component because it assumes that the
error term ε in equation (54) is independently and identically distributed over time, while
i,t
in our model it is serially correlated.12
In summary, the current literature, including Kline, Saggio and Sølvsten (2020), focuses
on designing methods to address limited mobility bias (going from column (3) to column (4)
to get results in line with column (2)). These methods are not designed, and indeed do not
address, selection bias in estimating the firm component of wages, the difference between
columns (1) and (2). This selection bias arises because two wage observations for a worker
who changes jobs are not drawn from the stationary wage distribution.
Figure 5 shows the selection bias directly by comparing estimated fixed effects from
regression (1) and (3) in Table 1. On the horizontal axis, we plot estimated worker-type and
firm-type fixed effects, αˆ¯ and ψ
ˆ¯
. On the vertical axis, we show the mean value of estimated
x y
worker fixed effects from column (3) among workers i whose true type is x, so E[αˆ x = x].
i i
|
We do the analogous exercise for firm fixed effects. If the estimates of worker types were
unbiased, then we would have E[αˆ x = x] = αˆ¯ and E[ψ ˆ y = y] = ψ ˆ¯ . This is the case
i i x j j y
| |
for the worker fixed effects, as the dots in the left panel are aligned along the 45-degree line.
Indeed, regressing αˆ on αˆ¯ confirms that the slope is 1. For the firm fixed effects, however,
i x
we see a bias as the mean firm fixed effects lie below the 45-degree line, with the slope of
0.80; this is again the magnitude of selection bias in estimating the firm component of wages.
Since we know workers’ and firms’ true types, we can also evaluate the magnitude of
limited mobility bias, i.e. of noise in estimates of the worker and firm fixed effects. We find
that it is substantial. The standard deviation of estimated worker fixed effects αˆ conditional
i
11The leave-one-out connected set is the largest set such that all workers and firms are still linked after
dropping any single worker-firm match. In Table 2 in the Appendix, we show that the results in columns
(1)–(3) are nearly unchanged if we use the leave-one-out connected set rather than the full sample.
12Remark 4 in Kline, Saggio and Sølvsten (2020), p. 1870 notes that even if the autocorrelation of the
error term is misspecified, their estimators of the variance of firm effects and the covariance between worker
and firm effects are consistent; however, their estimator of the variance of worker effects (and hence of the
variance of the residual) are consistent only when the error term is independent over time for every worker.
37

===== PDF PAGE 39 =====

ˆ
E[αˆ x = x] E[ψ y = y]
i i j j
| |
0.4
1
0.3
0.2
0.5
0.1
0 0
0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 1.2 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4
αˆ¯ ˆ¯
x ψ
y
Figure 5: Estimated type fixed effects and mean of estimated individual fixed effects. The
left panel shows αˆ¯ from column (1) and the mean of αˆ from column (3) among workers i
x i
ˆ¯ ˆ
with true type x. Similarly, the right panel shows ψ and the mean of ψ among firms j with
y j
true type y. The dashed line is the 45-degree line and the red lines are a linear fit through
the origin. In the left panel, we normalize αˆ¯ = E[αˆ x = 1] = 0. In the right panel, we
1 i i
|
ˆ¯ ˆ
normalize ψ = E[ψ y = 1] = 0.
1 j j
|
ˆ
on the true worker type is 0.29. The standard deviation of estimated firm fixed effects ψ
j
conditional on the true firm type is only slightly smaller, 0.24. Figure 10 in the Appendix
shows how noisey estimates of worker and firm fixed effects are by showing the interval
corresponding to 2 standard deviations from the mean for each worker and firm type.
±
6.4 Testing for Selection
Next, we apply the (Card, Heining and Kline, 2013) event study test to data generated from
our model. The left panel of Figure 6 shows the mean log wages of movers in the model-
generated data. In the figure, the move happens between years -1 and 0. We comment on a
few features of the figure and compare them to the data.
First, a worker going from quartile q to quartile q generally earns more in both jobs if
1 2
q or q is bigger. Card, Heining and Kline (2013) observe this in the data, writing on page
1 2
985 that “different mobility groups have different wage levels before and after a move.” The
same forces that lead to a firm effect in wages explains the impact of q on the first wage
1
and q on the second wage.
2
To understand the impact of q on the first wage, we note that the event study does
2
not condition on the worker’s type. In the model, the worker’s wage depends on their
38

===== PDF PAGE 40 =====

type and their employer’s type, but not on future employers. However, future employers’
types are correlated with the workers’ type because of assortative matching, and thus help to
predict the workers’ wage. The same correlation explain why q is correlated with the second
1
wage. Additionally, there is a second channel coming from competition between employers.
However, the symmetry of the impact of q on the first wage and q on the second wage
2 1
suggests that this channel is quantitatively weak.
The second feature is the absence of a strong pre-trend in wages. There is little evidence
that workers experience unusual wage cuts before a move, nor that they experience unusual
wage growth after a move.
Third, the mean log changes for upward and downward moves are nearly symmetric.
This is easier to see in the right panel of Figure 6. The figure shows pairs of quartiles q
1
and q , with q = q , and depicts the mean log wage change associated with the upward
2 1 2
̸
and downward move. If the gains were exactly symmetric, they would be aligned along the
minus 45 degree line, shown in red. We see that the data points are close to this line, which
illustrates that it is easy to interpret this test as supporting exogenous mobility and hence
no selection, even in a model with selection.
6.5 Wage Dynamics
Finally, we explore the dynamics of individual wages in our model. Our first result is that
our model generates an equal number of wage increases and wage cuts. In the sample of
workers employed in both years t and t+2, 49.9 percent experience wage cuts between these
two years, with cumulative average wage growth of 0.07 percent over the two year period.
To understand wage dynamics better, we split the sample into stayers, those workers
who have the same employer in both years t and t+2; and movers, who switch employers
between the two years. Stayers account for 66.6 percent of all workers employed in both
periods, while movers account for the other 33.6 percent.
Among stayers, mean wage growth is 0.11 percent over two years, with a standard de-
viation of 5.35 percent; see the left panel of Figure 7. 50.8 percent of stayers experience a
wage cut. These wage changes come from changes in productivity, both systematic (µ) and
idiosyncratic (σ), as well as wage changes coming from competing offers.
Amongmovers, the meanwagegrowth isslightlynegativeat -0.01percentovertwoyears,
with a much higher standard deviation, 39.4 percent; see the right panel of Figure 7. Almost
half of all movers experience a wage cut. The share of wage cuts may seem surprising, since
models where workers move up a ladder typically have difficulty generating many wage cuts.
The significant share of wage cuts reflects two factors in our model. First, in line with
39

===== PDF PAGE 41 =====

Mean log wage of movers
0
1
1 2
↔ 3 4
0.1 2 3 ↔
− ↔
0.5
1 3
↔
2 4
0.2 ↔
−
0
1 4
↔ 0.3
2 1 0 1
− 0 0.1 0.2 0.3
− −
year
wage growth for upward move
4 to 4 4 to 3 4 to 2 4 to 1
1 to 4 1 to 3 1 to 2 1 to 1
evom
drawnwod
rof
htworg
egaw
Mean wage growth
Figure 6: Mean log wages of movers in the artifical data generated from our model with on-
the-job search. We select movers who change jobs between times -1 and 0, and have at least
two years of tenure in both origin and destination firm. In the left panel, we show average
log wage of these workers in years -2,-1,0,1. In the right panel, we show log wage change of
upward and downward movers from our model with on-the-job search. Each square labeled
q q represents a pair of firm quartiles (q ,q ), with q < q . The horizontal axis shows
1 2 1 2 1 2
↔
the mean log wage gain of moving from q to q , while the vertical axis shows the mean log
1 2
wage gain of moving from q to q . The red dashed line represents symmetric changes for
2 1
upward and downward movers.
0.3
0.2
0.1
0
1 0.5 0 0.5 1 1.5
− −
wage growth log(w ) log(w )
i,t+2 i,t
−
ytisneD
Stayers Movers
0.1
0.05
0
2 0 2
−
wage growth log(w ) log(w )
i,t+2 i,t
−
Figure 7: Distribution of wage growth between years t and t+2 for stayers and movers.
40

===== PDF PAGE 42 =====

empirical literature, we do not distinguish movers who make a direct job-to-job transition
from workers who go through unemployment. Some of the wage cuts thus reflect workers
who experience unemployment.
But this is far from the full story. Since we know the data-generating process, we can
measure the wage change at the moment of a job-to-job transition, i.e. a voluntary wage
change. We find that 29.1 percent of job-to-job transitions are associated with a wage cut.
The full distribution is shown in Figure 9 in the Appendix. Voluntary wage cuts come
primarily from workers who are close to separation threshold z¯ and accept a new job that
x,y
is somewhat further from the threshold, thus trading off a lower wage for job stability and
wage growth prospects.
7 Conclusion
We have developed a random search model of the labor market with ex ante heterogeneous
workers and firms and ex post match-specific productivity shocks that are possibly time-
varying. A single selection equation determines which meetings result in matches and the
resulting model can explain multiple empirical patterns. When the distribution of match-
specific shocks is Pareto, this selection mechanism delivers four results. First, we prove that
wagesareadditivelyseparableintoaworkercomponent, afirmcomponent, andaconditional
mean zero error term. Second, we prove that when high type workers have a comparative
advantage in high type jobs, there is assortative matching. Third, we prove that the firm
component is closely related to the effect of creating a meeting between a worker and random
firm, conditional on the meeting resulting in a match. Fourth, we prove that the estimates
from a standard two-way fixed effects regression may be biased by endogenous mobility, and
that it may be difficult to detect this using conventional approaches.
41

===== PDF PAGE 43 =====

References
Abowd, John M., Francis Kramarz, and David N. Margolis, “High Wage Workers
and High Wage Firms,” Econometrica, 1999, 67 (2), 251–333.
, Kevin L. McKinney, and Ian M. Schmutte, “Modeling Endogenous Mobility in
Earnings Determination,” Journal of Business & Economic Statistics, 2019, 37 (3), 405–
418.
Alvarez, Jorge, Felipe Benguria, Niklas Engbom, and Christian Moser, “Firms
and the Decline in Earnings Inequality in Brazil,” American Economic Journal: Macroe-
conomics, 2018, 10 (1), 149–189.
Andrews, Martyn J., Leonard Gill, Thorsten Schank, and Richard Upward, “High
Wage Workers and Low Wage Firms: Negative Assortative Matching or Limited Mobility
Bias?,” Journal of the Royal Statistical Society: Series A (Statistics in Society), 2008, 171
(3), 673–697.
Bagger, Jesper and Rasmus Lentz, “An Empirical Model of Wage Dispersion with
Sorting,” Review of Economic Studies, 2019, 86 (1), 153–190.
Becker, Gary S., “A Theory of Marriage: Part I,” Journal of Political Economy, 1973, 81
(4), 813–846.
Belot, Michele, Philipp Kircher, and Paul Muller, “Providing Advice to Jobseekers
at Low Cost: An experimental study on online advice,” Review of Economic Studies, 2019,
86 (4), 1411–1447.
Bilal, Adrien, “The Geography of Unemployment,” Quarterly Journal of Economics, 2023,
138 (3), 1507–1576.
Bonhomme, St´ephane, Kerstin Holzheu, Thibaut Lamadon, Elena Manresa,
Magne Mogstad, and Bradley Setzler, “How Much Should We Trust Estimates of
Firm Effects and Worker Sorting?,” Journal of Labor Economics, 2023, 41 (2), 291–322.
Bonhomme, St´ephane, Thibaut Lamadon, and Elena Manresa, “A Distributional
Framework for Matched Employer Employee Data,” Econometrica, 2019, 87 (3), 699–738.
Bonneton, Nicolas and Christopher Sandmann, “Non-Stationary Search and Assor-
tative Matching,” 2023. mimeo.
42

===== PDF PAGE 44 =====

Borjas, George J., “Self-Selection and the Earnings of Immigrants,” American Economic
Review, 1987, 77 (4), 531–553.
Buera, Francisco J. and Ezra Oberfield, “TheGlobalDiffusionofIdeas,” Econometrica,
2020, 88 (1), 83–114.
Burdett, Ken and Melvyn G. Coles, “Marriage and Class,” Quarterly Journal of Eco-
nomics, 1997, 112 (1), 141–168.
Cahuc, Pierre, Fabien Postel-Vinay, and Jean-Marc Robin, “Wage Bargaining with
On-the-Job Search: Theory and Eevidence,” Econometrica, 2006, 74 (2), 323–364.
Card, David, Ana Rute Cardoso, and Patrick Kline, “Bargaining, Sorting, and the
Gender Wage Gap: Quantifying the Impact of Firms on the Relative Pay of Women,”
Quarterly Journal of Economics, 2016, 131 (2), 633–686.
, , Joerg Heining, and Patrick Kline, “Firms and Labor Market Inequality: Evi-
dence and Some Theory,” Journal of Labor Economics, 2018, 36 (S1), S13–S70.
, Jo¨rg Heining, and Patrick Kline, “Workplace Heterogeneity and the Rise of West
German Wage Inequality,” Quarterly Journal of Economics, 2013, 128 (3), 967–1015.
Diamond, Peter A. and Eric Maskin, “An Eequilibrium Analysis of Search and Breach
of Contract, I: Steady States,” Bell Journal of Economics, 1979, 10 (1), 282–316.
Eeckhout, Jan and Philipp Kircher, “Sorting and Decentralized Price Competition,”
Econometrica, 2010, 78 (2), 539–574.
and , “Identifying Sorting—In Theory,” Review of Economic Studies, 2011, 78 (3),
872–906.
Flinn, Christopher and James Heckman, “NewMethodsforAnalyzingStructuralMod-
els of Labor Force Dynamics,” Journal of Econometrics, 1982, 18 (1), 115–168.
Gibbons, Robert and Lawrence Katz, “Does Unmeasured Ability Explain Inter-
industry Wage Differentials?,” Review of Economic Studies, 1992, 59 (3), 515–535.
Gouss´e, Marion, Nicolas Jacquemet, and Jean-Marc Robin, “Marriage, Labor Sup-
ply, and Home Production,” Econometrica, 2017, 85 (6), 1873–1919.
Hagedorn, Marcus, Tzuo Hann Law, and Iourii Manovskii, “Identifying Equilibrium
Models of Labor Market Sorting,” Econometrica, 2017, 85 (1), 29–65.
43

===== PDF PAGE 45 =====

Heckman, James J. and Bo E. Honore, “The Empirical Content of the Roy model,”
Econometrica, 1990, 58 (5), 1121–1149.
Hong, Guangbin, “Two-Sided Sorting of Workers and Firms: Implications for Spatial
Inequality and Welfare,” 2024. University of Toronto mimeo.
Kline, Patrick, “Firm Wage Effects,” 2024. NBER Working Paper 33084.
, Raffaele Saggio, and Mikkel Sølvsten, “Leave-out Estimation of Variance Compo-
nents,” Econometrica, 2020, 88 (5), 1859–1898.
Lamadon, Thibaut, Jeremy Lise, Costas Meghir, and Jean-Marc Robin, “Labor
Market Matching, Wages, and Amenities,” 2024. NBER Working Paper 32687.
, Magne Mogstad, and Bradley Setzler, “Imperfect Competition, Compensating
Differentials, and Rent Sharing in the US Labor Market,” American Economic Review,
2022, 112 (1), 169–212.
Lopes de Melo, Rafael, “Firm Wage Differentials and Labor Market Sorting: Reconciling
Theory and Evidence,” Journal of Political Economy, 2018, 126 (1), 313–346.
Noe, Thomas, “Comparing the Chosen: Selection Bias when Selection is Competitive,”
Journal of Political Economy, 2020, 128 (1), 342–390.
Oberfield, Ezra, “A Theory of Input-Output Architecture,” Econometrica, 2018, 86 (2),
559–589.
Roy, Andrew Donald, “SomeThoughtsontheDistributionofEarnings,” Oxford economic
papers, 1951, 3 (2), 135–146.
Shi, Shouyong, “Frictional Assignment. I. Efficiency,” Journal of Economic Theory, 2001,
98 (2), 232–260.
, “Frictional Assignment, Part II: Infinite Horizon and Unequality,” Review of Economic
Dynamics, 2005, 8 (1), 106–137.
Shimer, Robert, “The Assignment of Workers to Jobs in an Economy with Coordination
Frictions,” Journal of Political Economy, 2005, 113 (5), 996–1025.
and Lones Smith, “Assortative Matching and Search,” Econometrica, 2000, 68 (2),
343–369.
44

===== PDF PAGE 46 =====

Smith, Lones, “The Marriage Model with Search Frictions,” Journal of political Economy,
2006, 114 (6), 1124–1144.
Song, Jae, David J. Price, Fatih Guvenen, Nicholas Bloom, and Till Von Wachter,
“Firming up Inequality,” Quarterly Journal of Economics, 2019, 134 (1), 1–50.
Woodcock, Simon D., “Wage Differentials in the Presence of Unobserved Worker, Firm,
and Match Heterogeneity,” Labour Economics, 2008, 15 (4), 771–793.
45

===== PDF PAGE 47 =====

Appendix
A Baseline Model Proofs
A.1 Existence and Monotonicity
Proof of Lemma 1. We prove that w¯ is strictly increasing. The proof that π¯ is strictly
x y
increasing is analogous.
To find a contradiction, suppose there exists an x < x with w¯ w¯ . Since f is
1 2 x1
≥
x2
monotonic, f > f for all y. Then using equation (6), we have z¯ > z¯ for all y.
x2,y x1,y x1,y x2,y
(cid:82)
Additionally, observe that ∞(z z¯)g(z)dz is strictly positive for all z¯, since G(z) < 1 for
z¯ −
all z. Additionally, the integral is decreasing in z¯, as can be confirmed directly. This means
(cid:82) (cid:82)
that z¯ ∞ x2,y (z − z¯ x2,y )g(z)dz > z¯ ∞ x1,y (z − z¯ x1,y )g(z)dz > 0.
Putting this together, if there exists an x < x with w¯ w¯ ,
1 2 x1
≥
x2
Y (cid:90)
γρ (cid:88) ∞
w¯ = v f (z z¯ )g(z)dz
x2
r+δ
y x2,y
−
x2,y
y=1 z¯x2,y
Y (cid:90)
γρ (cid:88) ∞
> v f (z z¯ )g(z)dz = w¯ ,
r+δ
y x1,y
−
x1,y x1
y=1 z¯x1,y
where the two equations use the value function (11) and the inequality uses f > f
x2,y x1,y
(cid:82) (cid:82)
and z¯ ∞ x2,y (z − z¯ x2,y )g(z)dz > z¯ ∞ x1,y (z − z¯ x1,y )g(z)dz > 0, together with strict positivity of the
remaining terms. But this is a contradiction, proving w¯ < w¯ .
x1 x2
Proof of Proposition 1. Consider the following 2(X +Y) functions of (w¯ ,u )X and
x x x=1
(π¯ ,v )Y :
y y y=1
Y (cid:90)
γρ (cid:88) ∞
T (w¯,π¯,u,v) = v f (z z¯ )g(z)dz,
1,x y x,y x,y
r+δ −
y=1 z¯x,y
X (cid:90)
(1 γρ) (cid:88) ∞
T (w¯,π¯,u,v) = − u f (z z¯ )g(z)dz,
2,y x x,y x,y
r+δ −
x=1 z¯x,y
Y
(cid:88) ρu v (1 G(z¯ ))
x y x,y
T (w¯,π¯,u,v) = m − ,
3,x x
− δ
y=1
X
(cid:88) ρu v (1 G(z¯ ))
x y x,y
T (w¯,π¯,u,v) = n − ,
4,y y
− δ
x=1
46

===== PDF PAGE 48 =====

where z¯ = (w¯ + v¯ )/f , as in equation (6). We refer to this mapping collectively as
x,y x y x,y
T = (T ,T ,T ,T ). It is immediate that any vector (w¯,π¯,u,v), together with z¯ solving
1 2 3 4
¯
equation (6) and ϕ solving equation (13), is an equilibrium if and only if it is a fixed point
of T, i.e. T(w¯,π¯,u,v) = (w¯,π¯,u,v).
˜
Now define the mapping T:
T ˜ (w¯,π¯,u,v) = min T (w¯,π¯,u,v),w¯¯ ,
1,x 1,x x
{ }
T ˜ (w¯,π¯,u,v) = min T (w¯,π¯,u,v),π¯¯ ,
2,y 2,y y
{ }
˜
T (w¯,π¯,u,v) = max T (w¯,π¯,u,v),0 ,
3,x 3,x
{ }
˜
T (w¯,π¯,u,v) = max T (w¯,π¯,u,v),0 ,
4,y 4,y
{ }
where
Y (cid:90)
w¯¯ = γρ (cid:88) n f ∞ (z w¯¯ /f )g(z)dz,
x y x,y x x,y
r+δ −
y=1
w¯¯x/fx,y
X (cid:90)
π¯¯ = (1 − γ)ρ (cid:88) m f ∞ (z π¯¯ /f )g(z)dz.
y x x,y y x,y
r+δ −
x=1
π¯¯y/fx,y
The mapping T ˜ is continuous. Moreover, it maps points satisfying w¯ [0,w¯¯ ], π¯ [0,π¯¯ ],
x x y y
∈ ∈
u [0,m ], and v [0,n ] for all x 1,...,X and y 1,...,Y into itself. Therefore
x x y y
∈ ∈ ∈ { } ∈ { }
˜
T has a fixed point by Brouwer’s fixed point theorem.
˜ ˜
We prove that at any (w¯,π¯,u,v) which is a fixed point of T, T(w¯,π¯,u,v) = T(w¯,π¯,u,v),
and thus (w¯,π¯,u,v) is also a fixed point of T. In the first step we prove that u > 0 for all
x
˜
x. This is because if u = 0, T (w¯,π¯,u,v) = m , contradicting (w¯,π¯,u,v) being a fixed
x 3,x x
˜
point. This implies T (w¯,π¯,u,v) = T (w¯,π¯,u,v) for all x at any fixed point. Similarly
3,x 3,x
˜ ˜
v > 0 at any fixed point of T and so T (w¯,π¯,u,v) = T (w¯,π¯,u,v) for all y at any fixed
y 4,y 4,y
point.
˜
Next, any fixed point has w¯ > 0 for all x: T (w¯,π¯,u,v) is continuous and decreasing
x 1,x
in w¯ and is strictly positive at w¯ = 0 since v > 0 for all y. Similarly any fixed point has
x x y
π¯ > 0 for all y.
y
Finally, in any fixed point of T ˜ , any solution to T ˜ (w¯,π¯,u,v) = w¯ has w¯ < w¯¯ because
1,x x x x
˜ ˜
π¯ > 0. This implies that the fixed point of T also solves T (w¯,π¯,u,v) = T (w¯,π¯,u,v) for
y 1,x 1,x
˜
all x. The same logic implies T (w¯,π¯,u,v) = T (w¯,π¯,u,v) for all y in any fixed point.
2,y 2,y
˜
In summary, we have proved that there exists a vector (w¯,π¯,u,v) with T(w¯,π¯,u,v) =
˜
(w¯,π¯,u,v), that at any such vector T(w¯,π¯,u,v) = T(w¯,π¯,u,v) and so (w¯,π¯,u,v) is a fixed
point of T, and that any fixed point of T is an equilibrium. This proves an equilibrium
47

===== PDF PAGE 49 =====

exists.
Along the way we also proved that w¯ > 0 for all x and π¯ > 0 for all y at any fixed
x y
˜
point of T, and hence in any equilibrium.
A.2 Wages
Proof of Proposition 2. Eliminate f from equation (9) using equation (6) to get an
x,y
expression for the wage in an (i,j) match:
(cid:18) (cid:19)
z
i,j
ω = w¯ +γ 1 (w¯ +π¯ ). (55)
i,j xi
z¯ −
xi yj
xi,yj
Let
z θ
i,j
ν .
i,j
≡ z¯ − θ 1
xi,yj
−
It is easy to confirm that ν is independently and identically distributed across matches,
i,j
has a mean zero, and a cumulative distribution Φ . Then equation (55) become
ν
(cid:18) (cid:19)
1
ω = w¯ +γ ν + (w¯ +π¯ ). (56)
i,j xi i,j
θ 1
xi yj
−
Using the definitions in equation (22), this immediately reduces to equation (21).
Proof of Proposition 3. We prove a more general version of this proposition. For any
strictly increasing function H : R R , define
+
→
(cid:82)
wH = z¯ ∞ x,y H(W x,y (z))g(z)dz . (57)
x,y 1 G(z¯ )
x,y
−
From equations (6) and (9), we have
(cid:18) (cid:19)
z
W (z) = w¯ +γ(w¯ +π¯ ) 1 .
x,y x x y
z¯ −
x,y
Using equation (57) and the functional form of the Pareto distribution, we obtain
(cid:16) (cid:17)
(cid:82) (cid:0) (cid:1)
wH = z¯ ∞ x,y H w¯ x +γ(w¯ x +π¯ y ) z/z¯ x,y − 1 θz − θ − 1dz .
x,y z¯ θ
x−,y
48

===== PDF PAGE 50 =====

Now let q = z/z¯ 1 and perform a change in the variable of integration to obtain
x,y
−
(cid:90)
wH ∞ H (cid:0) w¯ +γ(w¯ +π¯ )q (cid:1) θ(1+q) θ 1dq.
x,y ≡ x x y − −
0
Setting H(w) = log(w) for all w gives us equation (32). This equation implies that wH is
x,y
(cid:0) (cid:1)
simply a weighted average of H w¯ +γ(w¯ +π¯ )q , with the same weights for all (x,y). This
x x y
means that x and y only affect wH through w¯ and π¯ .
x,y x y
Now since H is strictly increasing, it is straightforward to verify that increasing either
w¯ or π¯ raises the integrand in equation (32) at all q > 0, and hence raises wH . This
x y x,y
establishes the first two enumerated points.
We next prove the third point if H is strictly concave. If H is strictly convex, we prove
wH + wH < wH + wH . If H is linear, this is an equality. Take x and x with
x1,y2 x2,y1 x1,y1 x2,y2 1 2
w¯ < w¯ ; and y and y with π¯ < π¯ . Let
x1 x2 1 2 y1 y2
(1+γq)(w¯ w¯ )
λ
x2
−
x1
.
≡ (1+γq)(w¯ w¯ )+γq(π¯ π¯ )
x2
−
x1 y2
−
y1
The assumptions on x , x , y , and y ensure that λ (0,1) for all q > 0. Then verify
1 2 1 2
∈
algebraically that
w¯ +γ(w¯ +π¯ )q = λ(w¯ +γ(w¯ +π¯ )q)+(1 λ)(w¯ +γ(w¯ +π¯ )q), and
x1 x1 y2 x1 x1 y1
−
x2 x2 y2
w¯ +γ(w¯ +π¯ )q = (1 λ)(w¯ +γ(w¯ +π¯ )q)+λ(w¯ +γ(w¯ +π¯ )q).
x2 x2 y1
−
x1 x1 y1 x2 x2 y2
Thus H concave (convex) implies
H(w¯ +γ(w¯ +π¯ )q) > (<)λH(w¯ +γ(w¯ +π¯ )q)+(1 λ)H(w¯ +γ(w¯ +π¯ )q), and
x1 x1 y2 x1 x1 y1
−
x2 x2 y2
H(w¯ +γ(w¯ +π¯ )q) > (<)(1 λ)H(w¯ +γ(w¯ +π¯ )q)+λH(w¯ +γ(w¯ +π¯ )q).
x2 x2 y1
−
x1 x1 y1 x2 x2 y2
Summing these gives
(cid:0) (cid:1) (cid:0) (cid:1)
H w¯ +γ(w¯ +π¯ )q +H w¯ +γ(w¯ +π¯ )q
x1 x1 y2 x2 x2 y1
(cid:0) (cid:1) (cid:0) (cid:1)
> (<)H w¯ +γ(w¯ +π¯ )q +H w¯ +γ(w¯ +π¯ )q
x1 x1 y1 x2 x2 y2
when H is concave (convex). Integrating over the density θ(1+q) θ 1 for q > 0 delivers the
− −
third bullet point.
Finally, we note that if f is strictly increasing in x and y, Lemma 1 implies w¯ and
x,y x
π¯ are strictly increasing. Then the three numbered conditions in the statement of the
y
49

===== PDF PAGE 51 =====

proposition imply that wH is strictly increasing and strictly submodular (supermodular) in
x,y
x and y when H is strictly concave (convex).
A.3 Assortative Matching
Proof of Proposition 4. We first prove that z¯ is strictly log-submodular. Substituting
x,y
equation (6) for z¯, we must prove that for x < x and y < y ,
1 2 1 2
(cid:18) (cid:19)(cid:18) (cid:19) (cid:18) (cid:19)(cid:18) (cid:19)
w¯ +π¯ w¯ +π¯ w¯ +π¯ w¯ +π¯
x1 y1 x2 y2
<
x1 y2 x2 y1
.
f f f f
x1,y1 x2,y2 x1,y2 x2,y1
Weak log supermodularity of f implies f f f f . And we see that the product
x1,y1 x2,y2
≥
x1,y2 x2,y1
of the numerators on the left hand side is smaller than the product of the numerators on the
right hand side if and only if
w¯ π¯ +w¯ π¯ < w¯ π¯ +w¯ π¯ (w¯ w¯ )(π¯ π¯ ) > 0.
x1 y2 x2 y1 x1 y1 x2 y2
⇔
x2
−
x1 y2
−
y1
This is immediate because w¯ and π¯ are strictly increasing (Lemma 1).
We now use the assumption that G(z) = 1 (z/z ) θ. Then since logz¯ is strictly
0 − x,y
−
submodular, log(1 G(z¯ )) = θlogz θlogz¯ is strictly supermodular. Finally, equa-
x,y 0 x,y
− −
¯
tion(13)impliesthatlogϕ inheritsthestrictsupermodularityoflog(1 G(z¯ )); andstrict
x,y x,y
−
¯ ¯
log-supermodularity of ϕ is equivalent to ϕ having the monotone likelihood ratio order.
B Endogenous Separations
We first solve the model, beginning with value functions, then state variables, and finally
wages. All proofs are in Appendix A.1.
B.1 Value Functions
We start by formulating the value function for the match surplus, Vs (z), defined as in
x,y
equation (5) as the sum of the value of an employed worker and a filled job, in excess of their
values while unmatched. This satisfies
1
rVs (z) = zf w¯ π¯ δVs (z)+µzVs (z)+ σ2z2Vs (z), (58)
x,y x,y − x − y − x,y x,′y 2 x,′y′
50

===== PDF PAGE 52 =====

where w¯ rVu is the flow value of unemployment and π¯ rVv is the flow value of a
x ≡ x y ≡ y
vacancy. Thelefthandsideistheflowvalueofsurplus. Thisisequaltothecontemporaneous
output of the match zf in excess of the outside options, the flow value of unemployment
x,y
plus the flow value of a vacancy; minus the rate matches end exogenously, δ, times the
surplus, plus two terms that account for the fact that z will change over time.
The solution to this value function satisfies three additional conditions. First, let z¯
x,y
denote the threshold for ending the match. At this threshold, we have the value matching
condition
Vs (z¯ ) = 0,
x,y x,y
which reflects the fact that when z is a bit larger than z¯ , it is very likely to cross the
x,y
threshold in the near future. The second is the smooth pasting condition,
Vs (z¯ ) = 0,
x,′y x,y
which is the optimality condition for the choice of threshold. The third is a no-bubble
condition,
f
lim Vs (z) = x,y ,
z
x,′y
r+δ µ
→∞ −
which states that when z is large, we can effective ignore the option to endogenously end
the match in the future.
Using these three conditions, we can solve the differential equation (58) explicitly:
(cid:32) (cid:33)
(cid:18) (cid:19) ξ
Vs (z) = zf x,y w¯ x +π¯ y 1 1 z − for z z¯ , (59)
x,y r+δ µ − r+δ − ξ +1 z¯ ≥ x,y
x,y
−
and Vs (z) = 0 otherwise, where ξ > 0 is a known function of model parameters:
x,y
(cid:32)(cid:114) (cid:33)
1 8(r+δ)
ξ +θ2 θ . (60)
≡ 2 σ2 −
Additionally, we can derive an explicit expression for the threshold for continuing a match:
(cid:18) (cid:19)
ξ +θ 1 w¯ +π¯
x y
z¯ = − . (61)
x,y
ξ +θ f
x,y
This is equation (34) in the text.
Next, usingequations(59)–(61)aswellasµ =
σ2
(1 θ), wecanrewritethevaluefunction
2 −
51

===== PDF PAGE 53 =====

as
 
w¯ +π¯ ξ (cid:0) z (cid:1) + (cid:0) z (cid:1) − ξ
Vs (z) = x y  z¯x,y z¯x,y 1 for z z¯ , (62)
x,y r+δ ξ +1 − ≥ x,y
and Vs (z) = 0 otherwise. This form is convenient for what follows. Note that the worker’s
x,y
share of surplus is Ve (z,w) Vu = γVs (z), a result we use in equation (44) in the text.
x,y − x,y x,y
Next we turn to the value of an unemployed worker. The worker meets a type y firm at
rate ρv and realizes the value of z drawn from a Pareto distribution. The match is formed
y
if z > z¯ , in which event the worker gets a fraction γ of the surplus
x,y
Y (cid:90)
w¯ = γρθzθ (cid:88) v ∞ Vs (z)z θ 1dz. (63)
x 0 y x,y − −
y=1 z¯x,y
Using (62) and integrating gives
γρzθξ (cid:88) Y
w¯ = 0 v (w¯ +π¯ )z¯ θ. (64)
x
(r+δ)(θ 1)(ξ +θ)
y x y x−,y
− y=1
There is a symmetric expression for the flow value of vacancy, which keeps a fraction (1 γ)
−
of the surplus:
(1 γ)ρzθξ (cid:88) X
π¯ = − 0 u (w¯ +π¯ )z¯ θ. (65)
y
(r+δ)(θ 1)(ξ +θ)
x x y x−,y
− x=1
If we knew u and v , equations (61), (64), and (65) would characterize the flow value of an
x y
unemployed worker, the flow value of a vacancy, and the threshold z¯ .
x,y
B.2 State Variables
¯
We turn next to the stationary distribution of z in (x,y) matches. Let ϕ denote the
x,y
measure of these matches and ϕ (z) denote the stationary density of z in the surviving
x,y
matches. Matches only form when z > z¯ and they end the first time z z¯ , so selection
x,y x,y
≤
changes the shape of ϕ (z) compared to the stationary distribution of z, which is Pareto.
x,y
The stationary distribution of z in (x,y) matches must satisfy the Kolmogorov forward
equation
(cid:18) (cid:19)
ϕ ¯ δϕ (z)+ ∂ (cid:0) µzϕ (z) (cid:1) 1 ∂2 (cid:0) σ2z2ϕ (z) (cid:1) = ρu v θzθz θ 1 (66)
x,y x,y ∂z x,y − 2∂z2 x,y x y 0 − −
forz z¯ . Thelefthandsideisthemeasureof(x,y)matchesmultipliedbytheoutflowfrom
x,y
≥
thedensityatapointz. Thiscomesfromthreeterms: exogenousseparations, thesystematic
52

===== PDF PAGE 54 =====

decline in z due to the drift µ, and movement to nearby points due to the Brownian shock.
The inflow comes from meetings according to the Pareto sampling distribution.
¯
We are interested in finding both the measure of (x,y) matches, ϕ , and the density of
x,y
z within those matches, ϕ (z). To do so, we first solve the differential equation (66):
x,y
2ρu v θzθz θ 1
ϕ ¯ ϕ (z) = x y 0 − − +c z ζ θ 1 +c zζ 1,
x,y x,y ζ(ζ +θ)σ2 1 − − − 2 −
where ζ is a positive constant:
(cid:32)(cid:114) (cid:33)
1 8δ
ζ +θ2 θ . (67)
≡ 2 σ2 −
¯
Wethenfindϕandϕ,pinningdowntheconstantsc andc ,usingthreeadditionalconditions.
1 2
(cid:82)
First, ϕ x,y (z) is a density, z¯ ∞ x,y ϕ x,y (z)dz = 1, which implies c 2 = 0. Second, the measure
of matches at the separation threshold is zero, ϕ (z¯ ) = 0. And third, the inflows and
x,y x,y
outflows from (x,y) matches balance:
(cid:18) (cid:19)
σ2
ϕ ¯ δ + z¯2 ϕ (z¯ ) = ρu v zθz¯ θ. (68)
x,y 2 x,y ′x,y x,y x y 0 x−,y
The left hand side is the rate that these matches end both exogenously (rate δ) and endoge-
nously (rate σ2 z¯2 ϕ (z¯ ), from the probability flux condition combined with ϕ (z¯ ) =
2 x,y ′x,y x,y x,y x,y
0). The right hand side is the rate that these matches are created.
The solution to this system of equations is
δaϕ ¯ = ρu v zθz¯ θ, (69)
x,y x y 0 x−,y
where δa 1σ2(ζ +θ)2 is the total separation rate; and
≡ 2
(cid:32) (cid:33)
θ(ζ +θ) z¯θ z¯θ+ζ
x,y x,y
ϕ (z) = , (70)
x,y ζ zθ+1 − zθ+ζ+1
(cid:82)z
so the associated cumulative distribution function Φ (z) ϕ (z )dz depends only on
x,y ≡ z¯x,y x,y ′ ′
the ratio z/z¯ , as shown in equation (39) in the body of the paper.
x,y
Finally, we can close the model by finding the unemployment and vacancy rates, which
53

===== PDF PAGE 55 =====

are just the measure of individuals left over after we account for matches.
Y
(cid:88)
¯
u = m ϕ (71)
x x x,y
−
y=1
X
(cid:88)
¯
v = n ϕ . (72)
y y x,y
−
x=1
¯
An equilibrium is then values of w¯ , π¯ , z¯ , ϕ , u , and v solving equations (61), (64),
x y x,y x,y x y
(65), (69), (71), and (72).
B.3 Wages
We are now in a position to characterize wages. The value function for a type-x worker
employed at a type-y firm with match-specific productivity z and wage w is
(cid:0) (cid:1) 1
rVe (z,w) = w+δ Vu Ve (z,w) +µzVe (z)+ σ2z2Ve (z). (73)
x,y x − x,y x,′y 2 x,′y′
The basic structure is familiar: the flow value of employment is the wage plus the capital
gain when the match ends, plus terms that come from the stochastic process for z.
We assume that the worker gets a constant share γ of the total surplus, Ve (z,w) Vu =
x,y − x,y
γVs (z). Moreover, we defined w¯ rVu. Then we can invert this equation to find the
x,y x ≡ x
equilibrium wage W (z):
x,y
(cid:32) (cid:33)
1
W (z) = w¯ +γ (r+δ)Vs (z) µzVs (z) σ2z2Vs (z) . (74)
x,y x x,y − x,′y − 2 x,′y′
Equation (58) tells us that the term in parenthesis is simply the flow surplus zf w¯ π¯ ,
x,y x y
− −
giving a simple expression for the wage:
W (z) = w¯ +γ(zf w¯ π¯ ). (75)
x,y x x,y x y
− −
This is identical to the wage in the model with constant z, but there is one important
difference: the worker continues to work even in some jobs paying less than w¯ . In particular,
x
at the reservation productivity level z¯ defined in equation (61), we have
x,y
w¯ +π¯
x y
W (z¯ ) = w¯ γ .
x,y x,y x
− ξ +θ
A worker is willing to take a job earning less than the flow value of unemployment because
54

===== PDF PAGE 56 =====

of the possibility that its productivity will increase.
It is useful to reexpress the wage as
(cid:18)(cid:18) (cid:19) (cid:19)
ξ +θ 1 z
W (z) = w¯ +γ − 1 (w¯ +π¯ ), (76)
x,y x x y
ξ +θ z¯ −
x,y
which we obtain by eliminating f from equation (75) using equation (61).
x,y
B.4 Proofs
Proof of Proposition 5. We first prove that w¯ is strictly increasing. Plugging equa-
x
tion (61) into equation (64), we have
γρzθξ (cid:18) ξ +θ 1 (cid:19) − θ (cid:88) Y
w¯ = 0 − v (w¯ +π¯ ) θ+1fθ .
x (r+δ)(θ 1)(ξ +θ) ξ +θ y x y − x,y
− y=1
To find a contradiction, suppose there exists an x < x with w¯ w¯ . Since θ > 1, this
1 2 x1
≥
x2
implies (w¯ +π¯ ) θ+1 (w¯ +π¯ ) θ+1. Since f is monotonic, f < f for all y. Thus
x1 y −
≤
x2 y − x1,y x2,y
the right hand side of the previous equation is smaller when evaluated at x than at x , a
1 2
contradiction. This proves w¯ < w¯ . The proof that π¯ is strictly increasing is analogous.
x1 x2 y
Next,theproofthatz¯ isstrictlylog-supermodularisidenticaltothestepsintheproofof
x,y
Proposition4,sincewestillhavez¯ (w¯ +π¯ )/f fromequation(61). Thenequation(69)
x,y x y x,y
∝
¯
immediately implies ϕ is log-supermodular, and hence has the monotone likelihood ratio
ordering.
Proof of Proposition 6. In the notation of this proposition, equation (76) implies
(cid:18)(cid:18) (cid:19) (cid:19)
ξ +θ 1 z (t)
i,j
ω (t) = w¯ +γ − 1 (w¯ +π¯ ). (77)
i,j xi
ξ +θ z¯ −
xi yj
x,y
Let
z (t)
i,j
ν (t) D,
i,j
≡ z¯ −
xi,yj
where
θ(ζ +θ)
D (78)
≡ (θ 1)(ζ +θ 1)
− −
is the expected value of q drawn from the distribution Φ in equation (39). Then among
employed workers, ν +D inherits the distribution of q z/z¯ from equation (39), so ν has
≡
55

===== PDF PAGE 57 =====

stationary distribution
ζ +θ θ
Φ ν (ν) = 1 (ν +D)− θ + (ν +D)− ζ − θ for all ν > 1 D. (79)
− ζ ζ −
By construction, ν has mean zero.
Now use
zi,j(t)
= ν (t) + D in equation (77) and take expectations. Since ν has mean
z¯xi,yj i,j
zero, this gives
(cid:18) (cid:19)
ξ +θ 1
E (ω (t)) = w¯ +γ − D 1 (w¯ +π¯ ) (80)
i,j xi
ξ +θ −
xi yj
Thus defining
(cid:18) (cid:19)
θ(ζ +θ)(ξ +θ 1)
C γ − 1 , (81)
∗
≡ (θ 1)(ξ +θ)(ζ +θ 1) −
− −
we get the desired expressions in equation (42). Finally, from equations (60) and (67), we
get that when r = 0, ξ = ζ and so C = γ .
∗ θ 1
−
Proof of Lemma 2. With two years of data, estimates of the firm fixed effects are
equivalent to what is obtained by running the regression in first differences:
w w = ψ ψ +ε ε . (82)
i,t+1 − i,t J i,t+1 − J i,t i,t+1 − i,t
As is well-known, this means that firm fixed effects are only identified from movers, i .
∈ M
By minimizing the sum of squared residuals, the OLS estimate of ψ must satisfy
j
(cid:88) (cid:88)
ˆ ˆ ˆ ˆ
(w w ψ +ψ ) = (w w ψ +ψ ). (83)
i,t+1 − i,t − J i,t+1 j i,t+1 − i,t − j J i,t
ij= i,t= i,t+1 ij= i,t+1= i,t
| J ̸ J | J ̸ J
Now take expectations, using the fact that each worker is as likely to move from j to j as
′
from j to j:
′
(cid:16) (cid:12) (cid:17)
E α+ α +ψ+ ψ Eψ ˆ + Eψ ˆ (cid:12)i moves from j to j
i − i− j′ − j− − j′ j(cid:12) ′
(cid:16) (cid:17)
= E α+ α +ψ+ ψ Eψ ˆ + Eψ ˆ i moves from j to j .
i − i− j − j−′ − j j′ | ′
The outer expectations are taken over the number and type of people who move away from
firm j (LHS) and move to firm j (RHS). Because each worker i is as likely to move from j
56

===== PDF PAGE 58 =====

to j as from j to j, the worker fixed effects cancel. Thus we have
′ ′
(cid:16) (cid:12) (cid:17)
E ψ+ ψ Eψ ˆ + Eψ ˆ (cid:12)i moves from j to j
j′
−
j−
−
j′ j(cid:12) ′
(cid:16) (cid:17)
= E ψ+ ψ Eψ ˆ + Eψ ˆ i moves from j to j .
j − j−′ − j j′ | ′
Equation (47) follows immediately.
Proof of Proposition 7. Start by looking at the first wage after a move. In a brand new
job z (t)/z¯ has a Pareto distribution with shape parameter θ and minimum value 1.
i,j′ xi,y j′
That is, the expected value of z (t)/z¯ immediately after a move is θ/(θ 1). Since the
i,j′ xi,y j′ −
wage satisfies equation (76), this implies
E (w = ) = (1+C+)w¯ +C+π¯ ,
i,t+1
|J
i,t+1
̸ J
i,t xi yJi,t+1
(cid:18) (cid:19)
ξ
C+ γ . (84)
≡ (θ 1)(ξ +θ)
−
Then in the language of Lemma 2, α+ = (1+γC+)w¯ and ψ+ = γC+π¯ .
i xi j yj
Now turn to the last wage before the move. We distinguish exogenous from endogenous
moves. Workers move exogenously at rate δ. In this case, the last wage comes from a
random draw from the stationary density of productivity ϕ (z), and so the expected value
x,y
of z (t)/z¯ is D = θ(ζ+θ) , as in equation (78).
i,j′ xi,y j′ (θ 1)(ζ+θ 1)
− −
Workers also move endogenously. From the probability flux condition in equation (68),
we get that the endogenous separation rate is σ2 z¯2 ϕ (z¯ ) = σ2 θ(ζ +θ). For endogenous
2 x,y ′x,y x,y 2
moves, the last wage comes from the bottom of the distribution, z (t) = z¯ . Putting
i,j′ xi,y j′
this together, the expected value of z/z¯ in exiting matches is
δ θ(ζ+θ) + σ2 θ(ζ +θ)
(θ 1)(ζ+θ 1) 2
− − .
δ + σ2θ(ζ +θ)
2
We can further simplify this by eliminating δ using equation (67). Then since the wage still
satisfies equation (76), we get that the expected wage in exiting (old) matches is
E (w = ) = (1+C )w¯ +C π¯ ,
i,t
|J
i,t+1
̸ J
i,t − xi − yJi,t
where
(cid:18) (cid:19)
ζξ(ζ +2θ 1) θ(θ 1)2
C γ − − − . (85)
−
≡ (θ 1)(ζ +θ)(ξ +θ)(ζ +θ 1)
− −
Again in the language of Lemma 2, this implies α = (1+C )w¯ and ψ = C π¯ .
i− − xi j− − yj
57

===== PDF PAGE 59 =====

Finally, equation (47) in Lemma 2 tells us that the expected value of the estimated firm
effect using movers is the average of ψ+ and ψ (up to an additive constant κ). It follows
j j−
immediately that the expected value of the estimated difference between two firm effects is
E(cid:0) ψ ˆ ψ ˆ (cid:1) = ψ j + 1 +ψ j− 1 − ψ j + 2 − ψ j− 2 = C+ +C − (π¯ π¯ ).
j1
−
j2
2 2
yj1
−
yj2
In contrast, from equation (42), the firm component of wages satisfies
ψ ψ = C (π¯ π¯ ),
y∗
j1 −
y∗
j2
∗ yj1
−
yj2
where C is defined in equation (43). Combining these gives us equation (48), with B
∗
≡
C++C−
. Note that this depends only on r, δ, θ, and σ. With some simplifications, we get
2C∗
2ζξ(ζ +2θ 1)+(θ 1)θ(ξ θ+1)
B = (cid:0)− − − (cid:1) . (86)
2(ζ +θ) ξ(ζ +2θ 1)+(θ 1)θ
− −
The proof that B < 1, the expression for B when r = 0, and the first order approximation
to B when σ is small all follow from manipulating this expression.
C Model with On-the-Job Search
C.1 Model
We now add on-the-job search in the manner of Cahuc, Postel-Vinay and Robin (2006).
Importantly, on-the-job search does not affect the joint surplus of a type x worker matched
to a type y firm in a match with idiosyncratic shock z. This is because when the worker
leaves the match to take a new job, her continuation value is exactly the outside option plus
the full surplus, while the firm’s continuation value is its outside option.
C.1.1 Equilibrium Equations
Match surplus must satisfy equation (62), rewritten here for convenience
 
w¯ +π¯ ξ (cid:0) z (cid:1) + (cid:0) z (cid:1) − ξ
Vs (z) = x y  z¯x,y z¯x,y 1, (87)
x,y r+δ ξ +1 −
58

===== PDF PAGE 60 =====

for z z¯ , with Vs (z) = 0 otherwise. We still have
≥ x,y x,y
(cid:18) (cid:19)
ξ +θ 1 w¯ +π¯
x y
z¯ = − (88)
x,y
ξ +θ f
x,y
and
(cid:32)(cid:114) (cid:33)
1 8(r+δ)
ξ +θ2 θ . (89)
≡ 2 σ2 −
Equation(87)implicitlydefinestheinverseofVs (z),Z (ν),theidiosyncraticshockz z¯
x,y x,y ≥ x,y
that gives a type x worker and a type y firm surplus ν 0. This satisfies
≥
1
Z (ν) = .
x′,y
Vs (Z (ν))
x,′y x,y
Likewise, the flow value of an unemployed worker solves equation (64), again rewritten here
for convenience
γ ρ zθξ (cid:88) Y
w¯ = 0 0 0 v (w¯ +π¯ )z¯ θ. (90)
x
(r+δ)(θ 1)(ξ +θ)
y x y x−,y
− y=1
The only change is that the worker’s initial bargaining power is γ .
0
¯
Let ϕ denote the measure of (x,y) matches and ϕ (z) denote the stationary density
x,y x,y
(cid:82)
of z in surviving matches, so that z¯ ∞ x,y ϕ x,y (z)dz = 1. The flow value of a vacancy is
X (cid:90)
π¯ = (1 γ )ρ zθ (cid:88) u ∞ Vs (z)θz θ 1dz
y − 0 0 0 x x,y − −
x=1 z¯x,y
(cid:32) (cid:33)
+ρ zθ (cid:88) X (cid:90) ∞ (cid:88) Y (cid:90) Z x,y′(V x s ,y (z)) (Vs (z) Vs (z ))ϕ ¯ ϕ (z )dz θz θ 1dz. (91)
1 0 x,y − x,y′ ′ x,y x,y′ ′ ′ − −
x=1 z¯x,y y′=1 z¯ x,y′
The first term gives the surplus that the firm gets from meeting an unemployed worker, a
fraction (1 γ ) of the total surplus ν. The second term gives the surplus from meeting
0
−
an employed worker, Vs (z) Vs (z ) if the current match has surplus Vs (z) and the
x,y − x,y′ ′ x,y
previous match had lower surplus Vs (z ), weighted by the probability of these events. Here
x,y′ ′
¯
ϕ ϕ (z) represents the probability that a type x worker is matched with a type y firm and
x,y x,y
has productivity z, an object we will find later.
To proceed, we use integration-by-parts. For the first term, this gives
(cid:90) (cid:90)
∞ Vs (z)θz θ 1dz = ∞ Vs (z)z θdz
x,y − − x,′y −
z¯x,y z¯x,y
59

===== PDF PAGE 61 =====

For the second term, we get
(cid:32) (cid:33)
(cid:90) ∞ (cid:88) Y (cid:90) Z x,y′(V x s ,y (z)) (Vs (z) Vs (z ))ϕ ¯ ϕ (z )dz θz θ 1dz
x,y − x,y′ ′ x,y′ x,y′ ′ ′ − −
z¯x,y y′=1 z¯ x,y′
(cid:90)
= ∞ Vs (z)Φ ˜ (Vs (z))z θdz,
x,′y x x,y −
z¯x,y
where
(cid:88) Y (cid:90) Z x,y′(ν)
˜ ¯
Φ (ν) = ϕ ϕ (z)dz (92)
x x,y′ x,y′
y′=1 z¯ x,y′
is the probability that a type x worker is in a match with surplus less than ν. Combining
terms, we get
X (cid:90)
π¯ = zθ (cid:88) ∞ (cid:0) (1 γ )ρ u +ρ Φ ˜ (Vs (z)) (cid:1) Vs (z)z θdz. (93)
y 0 − 0 0 x 1 x x,y x,′y −
x=1 z¯x,y
Furthermore, using the functional form for Vs in equation (87) and z¯ in equation (88), we
get
(cid:16) (cid:17)
ξ(θ+ξ)f 1 (cid:0) z (cid:1) − ξ − 1
Vs (z) = x,y − z¯x,y . (94)
x,′y
(ξ +1)(θ+ξ 1)(δ +r)
−
Next we turn to the Kolmogorov forward equation:
(cid:32) (cid:33)
ϕ ¯ ϕ (z) δ +ρ zθ (cid:88) Y v Z (Vs (z)) θ + ∂ (cid:0) µzϕ ¯ ϕ (z) (cid:1) 1 ∂2 (cid:0) σ2z2ϕ ¯ ϕ (z) (cid:1)
x,y x,y 1 0 y′ x,y′ x,y − ∂z x,y x,y −2∂z2 x,y x,y
y′=1
(cid:16) (cid:17)
= v θzθz θ 1 ρ u +ρ Φ ˜ (Vs (z)) . (95)
y 0 − − 0 x 1 x x,y
The first term on the left hand side gives the rate that workers exit these matches. This
happens either exogenously at rate δ or endogenously when they encounter a higher value
match, i.e. a type y firm with shock z Z (Vs (z)), the level that gives them the same
′ ≥ x,y′ x,y
value as they have in their current match. The remaining terms on the left hand side capture
the evolution of z within the current match, as in the model without on-the-job search. The
right hand side shows the rate that unemployed worker or employed workers at type y firms
′
with idiosyncratic shock z < Z (Vs (z)) meet a type y firm and realize idiosyncratic shock
x,y′ x,y
z.
Foreachxandy, equation(95)isaseparatesecondorderdifferentialequationforϕ (z).
x,y
It has the usual terminal conditional ϕ (z¯ ) = 0. The second boundary condition comes
x,y x,y
60

===== PDF PAGE 62 =====

from balancing out total inflows and total outflows into (x,y) matches:
(cid:32) (cid:33)
(cid:90) Y
∞ ϕ ¯ ϕ (z) δ +ρ zθ (cid:88) v Z (Vs (z)) θ dz + 1 σ2z¯2 ϕ ¯ ϕ (z¯ )
x,y x,y 1 0 y′ x,y′ x,y − 2 x,y x,y ′x,y x,y
z¯x,y y′=1
(cid:90)
(cid:16) (cid:17)
= ∞ v θzθz θ 1 ρ u +ρ Φ ˜ (Vs (z)) dz. (96)
y 0 − − 0 x 1 x x,y
z¯x,y
The first term on the first line is the total outflow from (x,y) matches through exogenous
separations and separations due to moving to a poaching firm. The second term captures
endogenous separations through match specific-productivity hitting the boundary z¯ . The
x,y
second line captures inflows into (x,y) matches which comes either from unemployment or
employment.
Finally, to close the model, we compute the unemployment and vacancy rates
Y
(cid:88)
¯
u = m ϕ , (97)
x x x,y
−
y=1
X
(cid:88)
¯
v = n ϕ . (98)
y y x,y
−
x=1
Equations (87), (90), (92), (93), (95), (96), (97), and (98) is a closed system that can be
solved for Vs (z), w¯ , π¯ , Φ ˜ (ν), ϕ ¯ ϕ (z), u , and v .
x,y x y x x,y x,y x y
C.1.2 Wages
We now turn to wages. Assume the wage depends on worker type, firm type, idiosyncratic
shock, andbargainingshareγ, whereγ istheshareofsurplusthattheworkerkeeps. Between
meetings, γ stays constant. If a worker in a meeting with surplus ν meets a firm with surplus
ν > ν, the worker moves to the new firm and gets bargaining power ν/ν . If the new firm
′ ′
has γν < ν ν, the worker stays in the old firm but bargaining power updates to γ = ν /ν.
′ ′ ′
≤
If ν γν, nothing changes. A worker hired from unemployment gets bargaining power γ.
′
≤
Surplusshareγ meansVe (z,γ) Vu = γVs (z). Wethusneedtowritethevaluefunction
x,y − x x,y
Ve (z,γ), recognizing how z changes, how the employer changes, and how bargaining power
x,y
61

===== PDF PAGE 63 =====

changes. We have
∂Ve (z,γ) 1 ∂2Ve (z,γ)
rVe (z,γ) = W (z,γ)+δ(Vu Ve (z,γ))+µz x,y + σ2z2 x,y
x,y x,y x − x,y ∂z 2 ∂z2
(cid:88) Y (cid:90) V x s ,y (z)(cid:18) (cid:18) ν (cid:19) (cid:19)
+ρ zθ v Ve z, ′ Ve (z,γ) θZ (ν ) θ 1Z (ν )dν
1 0 y′ x,y Vs (z) − x,y x,y′ ′ − − x′,y′ ′ ′
y′=1 γV x s ,y (z) x,y
+ρ zθ (cid:88) Y v (cid:90) ∞ (cid:18) Ve (cid:18) Z (ν ), V x s ,y (z) (cid:19) Ve (z,γ) (cid:19) θZ (ν ) θ 1Z (ν )dν .
1 0 y′ x,y′ x,y′ ′ ν − x,y x,y′ ′ − − x′,y′ ′ ′
y′=1 V x s ,y (z) ′
The first line reflects the wage, exogenous separations, and the evolution of z. The second
line reflects meeting a new type y firm with surplus ν between γ times current surplus and
′ ′
full current surplus. This leads to a change in bargaining power but no change in employer.
The third line reflects meetings with type y firms and surplus above current surplus, which
′
leads to a change in employer and a new bargaining power.
Using Ve (z,γ) Vu = γVs (z), we can rewrite this as
x,y − x x,y
1
(r+δ)γVs (z) = W (z,γ) rVu +µzγVs (z)+ σ2z2γVs (z)
x,y x,y − x x,′y 2 x,′y′
(cid:88) Y (cid:90) V x s ,y (z) (cid:0) (cid:1)
+ρ zθ v ν γVs (z) θZ (ν ) θ 1Z (ν )dν
1 0 y′ ′ − x,y x,y′ ′ − − x′,y′ ′ ′
y′=1 γV x s ,y (z)
Y
(cid:88)
+ρ zθ(1 γ)Vs (z) v Z (Vs (z)) θ.
1 0 − x,y y′ x,y′ x,y −
y′=1
The last line simplifies considerably, reflecting the fact that when a type x worker at a type
y firm with match shock z meets a type y firm with match shock z , the new surplus is
′ ′
higher if z > Z (Vs (z)); in the special case of y = y, this boils down to z > z. In this
′ x,y′ x,y ′ ′
event, the worker gets the full surplus from the old match, so the capital gain is 1 γ times
−
that surplus.
Match surplus still satisfies the second order differential equation (58), so we can simplify
62

===== PDF PAGE 64 =====

this considerably:
(cid:0) (cid:1)
W (z,γ) = w¯ +γ zf w¯ π¯
x,y x x,y x y
− −
(cid:88) Y (cid:90) V x s ,y (z) (cid:0) (cid:1)
ρ zθ v ν γVs (z) θZ (ν ) θ 1Z (ν )dν
− 1 0 y′ ′ − x,y x,y′ ′ − − x′,y′ ′ ′
y′=1 γV x s ,y (z)
Y
(cid:88)
ρ zθ(1 γ)Vs (z) v Z (Vs (z)) θ.
− 1 0 − x,y y′ x,y′ x,y −
y′=1
We can also do integration-by-parts on the remaining integral:
(cid:88) Y (cid:90) V x s ,y (z) (cid:0) (cid:1)
ρ zθ v ν γVs (z) θZ (ν ) θ 1Z (ν )dν
1 0 y′ ′ − x,y x,y′ ′ − − x′,y′ ′ ′
y′=1 γV x s ,y (z)
(cid:88) Y (cid:88) Y (cid:90) V x s ,y (z)
= ρ zθ(1 γ)Vs (z) v Z (Vs (z)) θ +ρ zθ v Z (ν ) θdν
1 0 − x,y y′ x,y′ x,y − 1 0 y′ x,y′ ′ − ′
y′=1 y′=1 γV x s ,y (z)
This cancels nicely with the last term in the wage equation
(cid:0) (cid:1) (cid:88) Y (cid:90) V x s ,y (z)
W (z,γ) = w¯ +γ zf w¯ π¯ ρ zθ v Z (ν ) θdν .
x,y x x,y − x − y − 1 0 y′ x,y′ ′ − ′
y′=1 γV x s ,y (z)
This formulation of the wage equation appears to be new to the literature, although it is
clearly related to some existing expressions.
To proceed further, we do a change-in-variables. Let ν = Vs (z ) so dν = Vs (z )dz .
′ x,y′ ′ ′ x,′y′ ′ ′
Then we have
W x,y (z,γ) = w¯ x +γ (cid:0) zf x,y − w¯ x − π¯ y (cid:1) − ρ 1 z 0 θ (cid:88) Y v y′ (cid:90) Z x,y′(V x s ,y (z)) V x s ,′y′ (z ′ )z ′− θ dz ′ . (99)
y′=1 Z x,y′(γV x s ,y (z))
Note from equation (87) that Vs (z ) is a polynomial in z and so the integral can be solved
x,′y′ ′ ′
explicitly.
C.2 Numerical Solution
We solve the model iteratively. Each iteration has two parts:
˜
1. Given u , v and Φ , use (87),(88), (90), and (93) to find w¯ ,π¯ ,z¯ .
x y x x y x,y
¯
2. Given w¯ ,π¯ ,z¯ , update ϕ ϕ (z).
x y x,y x,y x,y
63

===== PDF PAGE 65 =====

˜
(a) We treat u , v and Φ as known, and discretize (95) on a grid for z. We use two
x y x
boundary conditions: ϕ(z¯ ) = 0 and (96). This gives us a linear system to find
x,y
¯
new ϕ ϕ (z) on grid.
x,y x,y
¯ ˜
(b) We use ϕ ϕ (z) to update u , v and Φ .
x,y x,y x y x
(c) We repeat steps 2a and 2b until the updates in u and v are small enough.
x y
3. We repeat steps 1 and 2 until the updates are small enough.
C.3 Generating Artificial Data
To generate artificial data, we choose number of workers N, number of firms M and the
number of periods T to follow them. Moreover, we choose a vector tm with measurement
dates, when we will record employment status of all workers.
To start, we draw type for each worker i and each firm j in the sample according to their
corresponding type distribution m and n .
x y
We describe how we update worker’s state separately for employed and unemployed
workers.
Employed worker i with type x.
The initial state is (t,j,y,z,ν,γ) where t is the calendar time; j,y are firm’s name and type;
and z,ν,γ are value of match-specific productivity, match surplus and worker’s bargaining
power at time t. To update, we determine time of four events:
1. Time until exogenous separation, τ . This is a draw from exponential distribution with
1
expected duration 1/δ.
2. Time until endogenous separation, τ . This is a draw from Inverse Gaussian (IG)
2
distribution describing first hitting time for log(z). The two parameters describing IG
distribution is the distance from the barrier relative to the standard deviation, which
is (log(z) log(z¯ ))/σ and the drift relative to standard deviation, (µ
σ2
)/σ.
− x,y − 2
3. Time until meeting a firm and drawing a match-specific productivity above the separa-
tion threshold, τ . This is a draw from exponential distribution with expected duration
3
1/λe, where λe = ρ zθ (cid:80)Y v z¯ θ .
x x 1 0 y′=1 y′ x−,y′
4. Time until the next measurement date, τ . This is the time from t until the closest
4
tm t.
≥
64

===== PDF PAGE 66 =====

Evaluate which event happens first, τ = min τ ,...τ , and update worker’s state
min 1 4
{ }
accordingly:
1. τ = τ : Workerleavestounemployment. Weupdatehisstateto(t+τ , , , , , ).
min 1 1
− − − − −
We proceed as with unemployed worker (described below).
2. τ = τ : Workerleavestounemployment. Weupdatehisstateto(t+τ , , , , , ).
min 2 2
− − − − −
We proceed as with unemployed worker (described below).
3. τ = τ : Wefirstupdatethematch-specificproductivitytogetitsvalueattimet+τ .
min 3 3
That is, conditional on starting at z, we draw the value of match-specific productivity
τ periods later, conditional on the value of match-specific productivity staying above
3
the separation barrier z¯ during τ periods. We denote this draw z˜ and evaluate the
x,y 3
corresponding match surplus ν˜ = Vs (z˜). Next, we determine a poaching firm: We
x,y
draw y according to v z¯ θ / (cid:80) v z¯ θ , j from the distribution of firms with type
′ y′ x−,y′ y′′ y′′ x−,y′′ ′
y according to sampling weights b , and z from the Pareto distribution with scale
′ j′ ′
parameter z¯ . Then ν = Vs (z ). We distinguish three cases:
x,y′ ′ x,y′ ′
(a) ν˜ < ν : worker moves, and we update the state to (t + τ ,j ,y ,z ,ν ,γ ) where
′ 3 ′ ′ ′ ′ ′
γ = ν˜/ν
′ ′
(b) γν˜ < ν < ν˜: workers stays and but updates his bargaining power, so the new
′
state is (t+τ ,j,y,z˜,ν˜,γ ) where γ = ν /ν˜
3 ′ ′ ′
(c) v < γν˜: worker stays and does not update his bargaining power, so the new state
′
is (t+τ ,j,y,z˜,ν˜,γ)
3
4. τ = τ : Weupdatethematch-specificproductivitytocorrespondtotimet+τ . That
min 4 4
is, conditional on starting at z, we draw the value of match-specific shock in τ periods,
4
conditional on the value of match-specific productivity staying above the separation
barrier z¯ during τ periods. Denote this draw z˜ and compute the corresponding
x,y 4
match surplus ν˜ = Vs (z˜). The updated state is (t+τ ,j,y,γ,z˜,v˜). Since t+τ is also
x,y 4 4
the measurement date, we save (t+τ ,j,y,γ,z˜,ν˜) together with (i,x).
4
Unemployed worker i with type x.
For a worker who is unemployed at t, we draw the unemployment duration τ from an
u
exponential distribution with expected duration 1/λu, where λu = ρ zθ (cid:80)Y v z¯ θ . We
x x 0 0 y′=1 y′ x−,y′
then draw y according to v z¯ θ/ (cid:80) v z¯ θ , j from the distribution of firms with type y
y x−,y y′ y′ x−,y′
according to sampling weights b , and z from the Pareto distribution with scale parameter
j
65

===== PDF PAGE 67 =====

(1) (2) (3) (4)
var(logw) 0.2763 0.2763 0.2763 0.2763
(cid:99)
var(α) 0.1430 0.2198 0.2286 0.2078
(cid:99)
var(ψ) 0.0148 0.0096 0.0197 0.0095
(cid:99)
cov(α,ψ) 0.0187 0.0174 0.0087 0.0173
(cid:99)
var(ε) 0.0810 0.0122 0.0106 0.0243
(cid:99)
corr(α,ψ) 0.4074 0.3776 0.1291 0.3887
(cid:100)
worker type observed yes no no no
firm type observed yes yes no no
method OLS OLS OLS KSS
no. of observations 1560 1560 1560 1560
no. of workers 780 780 780 780
no. of movers 261 261 261 261
no. of firms 35 35 35 35
Table 2: Quantification of biases in log wage variance decomposition in artificial data on
leave-one-out connected set, as in (Kline, Saggio and Sølvsten, 2020). Numbers of observa-
tions, workers, movers and firms are in thousands.
z¯ . Then ν = Vs (z) and bargaining power γ = γ . Hence, the updated state is (t +
x,y x,y 0
τ ,j,y,z,ν,γ).
u
Loop
We keep updating workers’ states until every workers’ current time is t T. We initialize
≥
every worker as unemployed at time t = 0 and discard several first periods to make sure
the economy is in a steady state. We use log-normal distribution as sampling weights b for
j
firms with the given type y.
C.4 Additional Statistics from the Model
In this section, we present additional results for the parametrized model.
Table 2 is an analog of Table 1 but using leave-one-out connected set, as defined by
(Kline, Saggio and Sølvsten, 2020), for all columns (1)–(4).
Figure 8 shows average wage, rather than average log wage, paid in an (x,y) match and
distribution of worker types in different firm types. We note that the distribution is the same
as in Figure 3, which shows the average log wage.
The model generates a considerable share of job-to-job transitions which are associated
with a wage cut. In Figure 9, we plot the histogram of log(w ) log(w ) for workers
i,t+ i,t
− −
who move to a different employer at time t, using w to denote the wage of worker i an
i,t+
66

===== PDF PAGE 68 =====

Average wage Share of worker types
1
5
0.8
4
0.6
3
0.4
2
0.2
1 0
2 4 6 8 10 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
firm type y firm type y
Figure 8: Average wages and distribution of worker types conditional on firm type in the
model with on-the-job. The left panels show the average wage paid by different firms for
different worker types. Each line represents one worker type. The right panels show the
distribution of worker types x in firms with different firm types y.
instant after the move, and w an instant before the move. On average, wages increase
i,t
−
by 7.9 percent at the instant of a job-to-job move (standard deviation 14.4 percent), but
29.8 percent of workers take a wage cut. This cannot be observed in the data due to time-
aggregation
D Variance Decomposition in Veneto Data
We use Veneto data to conduct the variance decomposition of wages measured in levels or
logs. We follow Kline, Saggio and Sølvsten (2020) in constructing the sample from Veneto
datafortheyears1985–2001. Fromthisdata, weconstruct15sampleswithtwoyearsofdata
each. We first winsorize the data by dropping top and bottom 1% of the wage observations.
We further deflate wages by the average wage in the given calendar year. For each sample,
we run the two-way fixed effects regression with wages on the right-hand side, measured
either in levels or logs.
Across the samples, we find that the correlation between worker fixed effects estimated
using logs and using levels is 0.966; and the correlation between firm fixed effects estimated
in logs and levels is 0.964. This suggests that measuring wages in logs or levels does not
affect much estimation of fixed effects.
We next examine whether measuring wages in logs or levels affects the variance decom-
67

===== PDF PAGE 69 =====

0.1
0.08
0.06
0.04
0.02
0
1 0.5 0 0.5 1 1.5 2
− −
wage growth log(w ) log(w )
i,t+ i,t
− −
ytisned
Figure 9: Distribution of wage growth from an instant before to an instant after a job-to-job
move.
ˆ
E[αˆ x = x] E[ψ y = y]
i i j j
| |
1
1 0.5
0
0
0.5
−
0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 1.2 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4
αˆ¯ ˆ¯
x ψ
y
Figure 10: Estimated type fixed effects, mean of estimated individual fixed effects and its
variance. The left panel shows αˆ¯ from column (1) and the mean of αˆ from column (3)
x i
ˆ¯ ˆ
among workers i with true type x. Similarly, the right panel shows ψ and the mean of ψ
y j
among firms j with true type y. The whiskers show mean plus 2 standard deviation. In
±
the left panel, we normalize αˆ¯ = 0. In the right panel, we normalize ψ
ˆ¯
= 0.
1 1
68

===== PDF PAGE 70 =====

position. For each sample and for each measure of wages, we do an OLS-based variance
decomposition, which we know is biased, as well as the KSS method which is designed to
correct the bias. Figure 11 shows the time series of the variance decomposition, using solid
lines for KSS and dashed lines for OLS. We see that the trend in each component of the
decomposition is similar whether measured in logs or levels.
E Exponentially-Distributed Match Quality
E.1 Wages
Here we characterize the average log wage under the assumption that z has an exponential
distribution with parameter θ > 0, so G(z) = 1 e θz for all z 0.
−
− ≥
Proposition 8 Assume z has an exponential distribution with parameter θ > 0. Then
(cid:90)
w = θ ∞ log(w¯ +γqf )e θqdq. (100)
x∗,y x x,y −
0
Assume that for all x < x and y, f < f . Then w < w . Additionally, take any
1 2 x1,y x2,y x∗ 1,y x∗ 2,y
x, y , and y . Then w ⋛ w if and only if f ⋛ f .
1 2 x∗,y1 x∗,y2 x,y1 x,y2
If f = f1f2 for strictly increasing functions f1 and f2, then w is strictly increasing
x,y x y x∗,y
and strictly submodular.
Our proof of the first part of the Proposition below allows for any transformation of the
wage, not just the log. The submodularity result for a multiplicatively-separable production
function relies on the logarithmic assumption.
Before proving Proposition 8, we establish a preliminary result:
Lemma 3 Assume f = f1f2 for strictly positive and strictly increasing functions f1 and
x,y x y
f2. Then w¯ /f1 and π¯ /f2 are strictly increasing.
x x y y
Proof. We prove that w¯ /f1 is strictly increasing. To find a contradiction, assume there
x x
is an x < x with w¯ /f1 w¯ /f1 . Note x < x implies 1/f1 > 1/f1 . Equation (6)
1 2 x1 x1 ≥ x2 x2 1 2 x1 x2
states
w¯x + π¯y
f1 f1
z¯ = x x ,
x,y f2
y
and so z¯ > z¯ for all y. Moreover, equation (11) implies
x1,y x2,y
Y (cid:90)
w¯ x = γρ (cid:88) v f2 ∞ (z z¯ )g(z)dz.
f1 r+δ y y − x,y
x y=1 z¯x,y
69

===== PDF PAGE 71 =====

0.1
0.08
0.06
0.04
0.02
0
1985 1990 1995 2000
segaw
fo
ecnairaV
0.06
0.04
0.02
0
1985 1990 1995 2000
α
fo
ecnairaV
0.03
0.02
0.01
0
1985 1990 1995 2000
ψ
fo
ecnairaV
0.01
0
0.01
−
0.02
− 1985 1990 1995 2000
ψ,α
ecnairavoC
2
×
0.03
0.02
0.02
0.01
0.01
0
1985 1990 1995 2000
year
ε
fo
ecnairaV
0.2
0
0.2
−
1985 1990 1995 2000
year
log, OLS level, OLS
log, KSS level, KSS
noitalerroC
Figure 11: Variance decomposition in Veneto data, years 1986–2000, using wages in logs and
levels, leave-one-one-connected set, OLS and KSS variance decomposition.
70

===== PDF PAGE 72 =====

Since the integral is decreasing in z¯ , we have
w¯x1
<
w¯x2,
a contradiction.
x,y f1 f1
x1 x2
Theproofthatπ¯ /f2 isstrictlyincreasingisidentical, manipulatingequation(12)instead
y y
of equation (11).
Proof of Proposition 8. For the first part of the Proposition, we again work with the
more general version, using wH defined in equation (57) for an arbitrary increasing function
H. From the wage equation (9) and the exponential distribution, we have
(cid:90)
wH = θ ∞ H(w¯ +γ(zf w¯ π¯ ))e θ(z z¯x,y)dz.
x,y x x,y − x − y − −
z¯x,y
Let q = z z¯ to get
x,y
−
(cid:90)
wH = θ ∞ H(w¯ +γ((q +z¯ )f w¯ π¯ ))e θqdq.
x,y x x,y x,y − x − y −
0
From equation (6), we can reduce this to
(cid:90)
wH = θ ∞ H(w¯ +γqf )e θqdq,
x,y x x,y −
0
which is equivalent to equation (100) when H(w) = logw for all w. If f is strictly increasing,
so is w¯ (Lemma 1). And since H is strictly increasing, then the integrand in equation (100)
x
is strictly increasing in both x and y for all q. Thus wH is strictly increasing.
Finally we turn to the multiplicatively separable case, f = f1f2. Here we assume
x,y x y
H(w) = logw. We use equation (100). w is strictly submodular if
∗
log(w¯ +γqf1f2)
x x y
is strictly submodular for all q > 0. So take x < x and y < y . Strict submodularity
1 2 1 2
requires
log(w¯ +γqf1 f2 )+log(w¯ +γqf1 f2 ) < log(w¯ +γqf1 f2 )+log(w¯ +γqf1 f2 ),
x1 x1 y1 x2 x2 y2 x1 x1 y2 x2 x2 y1
or equivalently
(w¯ +γqf1 f2 )(w¯ +γqf1 f2 ) < (w¯ +γqf1 f2 )(w¯ +γqf1 f2 ).
x1 x1 y1 x2 x2 y2 x1 x1 y2 x2 x2 y1
Expand the products and cancel common terms to get
w¯ f1 f2 +w¯ f1 f2 < w¯ f1 f2 +w¯ f1 f2
x1 x2 y2 x2 x1 y1 x1 x2 y1 x2 x1 y2
71

===== PDF PAGE 73 =====

or
(cid:18) (cid:19)
w¯ w¯
x2 x1 (f2 f2 ) > 0.
f1 − f1 y2 − y1
x2 x1
Lemma 3 implies the first term is positive for all x < x and the second term is positive by
1 2
assumption.
Some of these results parallel the earlier results for a Pareto distribution. In particular,
if f is strictly increasing in both x and y, then so is the average log wage. Thus the model
predicts that more productive workers are paid higher wages at any firm, and that more
productive firms pay higher wages to any worker.
On the other hand, when G is exponential, the average log wage depends on the entire
production function f, not just on the reservation wage and profit, as was the case with a
Pareto. This allows for some interesting possibilities. For example, a type-x worker’s average
log wage at a type-y firm is increasing in f , and so different types of workers may have a
x,y
different ordering of average log wages across firm types.
When f is strictly increasing and multiplicatively separable. Proposition 8 establishes
x,y
that the average log wage is increasing and submodular, exactly as we established in Propo-
sition 3 with the Pareto distribution. Thus once again we see that complementarity in the
production function does not necessarily carry over to the average log wage.
E.2 Assortative Matching
We now give conditions for assortative matching in the exponential case. This requires
somewhat stronger assumptions that the Pareto case.
Proposition 9 Assume z has an exponential distribution with parameter θ > 0. Also as-
sume f is strictly increasing and either 1/f is weakly supermodular or f is mul-
x,y x,y x,y
−
tiplicatively separable. Then the measure of matches ϕ ¯ has the monotone likelihood ratio
order.
For a strictly increasing function f, the assumption that 1/f is weakly supermodular im-
x,y
−
plies that f is strictly log supermodular, while multiplicative separability is the borderline
x,y
case for weak log supermodularity.
Proof of Proposition 9. We split the proof into two pieces.
72

===== PDF PAGE 74 =====

1/f weakly supermodular. Take any x < x and y < y . Then
x,y 1 2 1 2
−
(cid:18) (cid:19)
1 1
(w¯ w¯ ) < 0,
f − f
x2
−
x1
x2,y2 x2,y1
(cid:18) (cid:19)
1 1
(π¯ π¯ ) < 0,
f − f
y2
−
y1
x2,y2 x1,y2
since in both cases the first term is negative (since f is positive and strictly increasing) and
the second term is positive by Lemma 1. Additionally, 1/f submodular implies
1 1 1 1
+ + .
f f ≤ f f
x1,y1 x2,y2 x1,y2 x2,y1
Multiply each term in the last inequality by w¯ +π¯ and add to the preceding inequalities
x1 y1
to get
w¯ +π¯ w¯ +π¯ w¯ +π¯ w¯ +π¯
x1 y1
+
x2 y2
<
x1 y2
+
x2 y1,
f f f f
x1,y1 x2,y2 x1,y2 x2,y1
From equation (6), this implies that z¯ is strictly submodular.
x,y
Next, in steady state with an exponential distribution, we have from equation (13) that
¯
logϕ = log(ρ/δ)+logu +logv θz¯ .
x,y x y x,y
−
¯
Since z¯ is strictly submodular and the other terms are amodular, this proves that logϕ
x,y x,y
¯
is strictly supermodular, i.e. that ϕ has the monotone likelihood ratio order.
f multiplicatively separable. Assume f = f1f2 for some strictly positive and
x,y x,y x y
strictly increasing functions f1 and f2. As in the other case, we must prove that for all
x > x and y > y , z¯ is strictly submodular:
2 1 2 1 x,y
w¯ +π¯ w¯ +π¯ w¯ +π¯ w¯ +π¯
x1 y1
+
x2 y2
<
x1 y2
+
x2 y1.
f1 f2 f1 f2 f1 f2 f1 f2
x1 y1 x2 y2 x1 y2 x2 y1
Regroup terms to write this as
(cid:18) (cid:19)(cid:18) (cid:19) (cid:18) (cid:19)(cid:18) (cid:19)
w¯ w¯ 1 1 π¯ π¯ 1 1
x1 x2
+
y1 y2
< 0.
f1 − f1 f2 − f2 f2 − f2 f1 − f1
x1 x2 y1 y2 y1 y2 x1 x2
Lemma 3 establishes that of w¯ /f1 is increasing. A parallel (omitted) proof establishes
x x
monotonicity of π¯ /f2. Thus both of the terms on the left hand side are negative, proving
y y
the result.
73

===== PDF PAGE 75 =====

E.3 Other Distributions
A natural question is whether monotonicity of the production function f guarantees mono-
tonicity of the average log wage for other distributions of the match-specific shock z. In
general, the answer is no. First, if the distribution of match-specific productivity shocks is
degenerate, wages are generally a hump-shaped function of a firm’s type for a given worker
(Shimer and Smith, 2000; Eeckhout and Kircher, 2011; Lopes de Melo, 2018). Second, we
are able to construct an economy where the production function is strictly increasing and
z has a continuous distribution on the positive real line, yet the average log wage is not
monotonic in the firm type. Still, it is easy to construct other examples where the wage is
monotone in both the worker and firm types, and for this reason we believe that the special
cases we highlight here are useful for understanding more general properties of the model.
74